 London - A mother of three threw herself to her death under a train after her husband was jailed for raping a woman he met on Tinder. Yinka McKay, 40, had a mental breakdown after Rica, her husband of 18 years, was accused of treating his victim ‘like an animal’ at the end of a date. On June 27 – a year after McKay, 47, was jailed for seven years – Mrs McKay took her son to school then went to Birchwood station near her home in Warrington, Cheshire. She jumped off the platform as a train sped through at 80mph. The inquest into her death heard that Mrs McKay died from multiple injuries, having tried to take her own life before. Christopher Winters, who was in the train’s cab as it was driven by a colleague, said Mrs McKay came from bushes by the platform, adding that she ‘almost skipped out into the middle of the track’. Mrs McKay, an NHS nutritionist at Wythenshawe Hospital in Manchester, met IT expert McKay at university in Birmingham. They wed in 2000 and had three sons. But the marriage began to crumble when McKay, who worked on IT systems for the 2012 London Olympics, began travelling away for work, including to Azerbaijan. In a statement read to the hearing in Warrington, Mrs McKay’s mother, Irene Fatimilehin, said: ‘Rica would often work overseas. He seemed to have problems obtaining jobs locally. ‘During 2015 there were marital difficulties and that was the start of her struggles. She could not cope and started to become manic. ‘She was seen by a psychiatrist and commenced medication.’ When McKay was accused of rape in early 2016, his wife decided they should have a trial separation. They reunited briefly, but when she learned in January 2017 that he was to be tried she had a breakdown. Her mother added: ‘She did not sleep for days. She told me she had around £10,000 of debt. ‘She was admitted to hospital and spent three weeks there. I moved in with her to help out with the boys. ‘In March 2017, Rica was sentenced and Yinka started to apply for a divorce. She had obsessive compulsive disorder and anxiety. ‘The day before her death she went to bed during the day. Next morning she took one of the boys to school. When she wasn’t home, I called her. She said she was waiting to speak to a teacher. I ended with “God bless” and she replied the same. ‘In the months before her death she had attempted taking her life. She had visited the same station before.’ Recording a conclusion of suicide, coroner Heath Westerman said: ‘She intended to end her own life.’