DURBAN - Checkers LiquorShop has partnered with Mr D Food to have alcohol delivered to the doors of customers. According to the CheckersLiquor store, by the end of the 2018 customers will be able to purchase ice cold drinks at in-store prices. The alcohol can be ordered from 60 Checkers LiquorShops across the Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal via the Mr D Food app with more stores being activated in 2019. Available on the app is a selection of top liquor brands including beer, wine and spirits and non-alcoholic beverages like soft drinks, juice and water. The service operates within the working hours of the CheckersLiquorShop. Neil Schreuder, Head of Strategy and Innovation for the Shoprite Group said, "Innovation which provides unrivalled convenience for consumers in our time-pressed society is what we are focussing on". According to Schreuder, they trialled a number of on-demand platforms before entering into this partnership. He added that Mr D Food offers a truly seamless customer experience as the market leaders in last mile delivery. Over 1 million South Africans have already downloaded the Mr D Food app and the delivery service is offering free delivery on the first alcohol order on the app. Devin Sinclair the Head of Mr D Food said, "Adding a national liquor store partner to the more than 2 600 restaurants already on the Mr D Food platform will allow us to offer our customers even further choice and convenience". He added that they are delighted to be working Checkers. Here is how you can order liquor through MrD Food: 1. Download the Mr D Food app from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store2. Select your delivery location3. Go to the Checkers LiquorShop option and place your order4. Pay with cash on delivery or securely by card or EFT in app Alcohol delivery apps The partnership betwen Mr D Food and Checkers is not the only alcohol delivery service in South Africa. Some of the alcohol delivery apps that are avaiable in South Africa include NetLiquor, Stock up and Boozy. Here is a look at two alcohol delivery apps in comparison to Mr D Food: .tg {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;border-color:#aabcfe;} .tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:0px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:#aabcfe;color:#669;background-color:#e8edff;} .tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:0px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:#aabcfe;color:#039;background-color:#b9c9fe;} .tg .tg-s268{text-align:left} .tg .tg-0lax{text-align:left;vertical-align:top}  Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE