CAPE TOWN –  Good morning. This is all the latest business news that you need to know today. 1. Sars achieves 30 convictions for R65bn tax fraud in 6 months The South African Revenue Service (Sars) reported on Thursday that it had achieved 30 successful convictions in VAT and Personal Income Tax fraud cases, involving R65 billion between April and September this year. 2. WATCH: Rand unmoved by land expropriation hype The rand traded stronger versus the US dollar during European trade yesterday according to NKC Research. 3. Economists warn of 'economic meltdown' over land expropriation The JSE’S banking index slid nearly 2 percent after Parliament's Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday recommended that the Constitution be amended to explicitly provide for the expropriation of land without compensation. 4. Investec shares pounded by Brexit doubt Brexit uncertainty yesterday spilt over to dent the share price of Investec by nearly 3 percent as the asset manager and banker delivered its interim results. 5. South Africa should avoid uncertainty in land reform - World Bank executive Investors will want South Africa to avoid creating uncertainty with its proposed land reforms, a senior World Bank group executive said on Wednesday according to a Reuters report. This comes after the ruling that the African National Congress considers changing the constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. 6. Tom Moyane to challenge his exit, wants Ramaphosa's decision to be reviewed After being fired two weeks ago due to recommendations by the Nugent commission of inquiry, Former Sars commissioner  Tom Moyane has filed an urgent application to review President Cyril Ramaphosa's decision to fire him. 7. Sterling tanks as May races to salvage Brexit deal Sterling tumbled on Thursday after a series of resignations rocked Prime Minister Theresa May’s government and threw into doubt her long-awaited Brexit agreement just hours after it was unveiled. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE