PORT ELIZABETH - The death toll in a series of gang shootings in Port Elizabeth’s northern area’s over the last month rose to nine on Wednesday after a 24-year-old man was shot dead. The shooting came less than 24 hours after Yannivk Jacobs, 30, was shot and killed after opening her front door at her house in Steenbok Street in Gelvandale on Tuesday night. The latest shooting unfolded along Standford Road opposite an area known by locals as "Die Gaat" - which is in the centre of Helenvale, notoriously known for its drug posts and gang activities. At the scene, the body of a man was lying on the road while community members looked on. His body was not even cold before more shots rang out while reporters were on the scene. Police called for back up and vehicles rushed to another shooting nearby. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu said it was alleged that a navy blue golf with three occupants were driving on Standford Road when the car broke down near die Gaat. Naidu said one occupant alighted and got into a taxi and drove off while the other two remained in the vehicle. It is further alleged that a gold VW Golf stopped nearby and five occupants got out. Naidu said two suspects approached the vehicle and started shooting. A 24-year-old man was shot in the neck and died on the scene while a 22-year-old man was shot multiple times in his legs and was taken to hospital. The Provincial Gang Investigation Unit are investigating a case of murder and attempted murder. Earlier this month, Ruaan Willemse, 8, Deacon van Rooyen, 16, and Chadwin Calvert, 17, died in a hail of bullets in a house in Capulet Street in Booysens Park. Keenan Louw, 26, who was also in the house at the time, subsequently died in hospital.The motive for the attack is still unknown. Meanwhile, a case of assault was registered at the Gelvandale Police Station after an African News Agency journalist was manhandled by a police officer at the scene of Wednesday's shooting. The journalist was taking video footage when the unidentified police officer thrust towards the reporter and grabbed her cellphone. The reporter was busy taking video footage of the officer who was attempting to confiscate a camera of Die Burger photographer, Lulama Zenzile. African News Agency (ANA)