Never did I think my daughter would be exposed to the evils of humanity at such a young age. But while eating her birthday cake at the Jam and Daisies café she listened to how Muhammad, who had been playing soccer with his friends last December, had climbed up a ladder to peer over a wall to find out why the shooting of the Israeli soldiers had suddenly fallen silent. A soldier who was hiding on the other side of the wall shot Muhammad in the face. Muhammad fell backwards to the ground, the ladder falling on top of him, and his friends screaming and scrambling to carry him away, his face bleeding profusely as the rubber- coated steel bullet had shattered his jaw, entered his eye socket and was lodged in his brain. That was cold-blooded and to this day nothing has happened to that Israeli soldier. Twenty-five minutes after the shooting, the Israeli soldier and his friend walked past the home of Muhammad’s 16-year-old cousin Ahed Tamimi - the blonde Palestinian girl who has now become the poster child of the Palestinian struggle. Ahed had been told that he was the soldier who had shot her cousin in the face, which is what led to the altercation in which she slapped the Israeli soldier’s face - a scene that went viral and was played on social media around the world. Ironically the slap became the story and not the shooting of Muhammad in the face, probably because that moment wasn’t captured on video and failed to capture the world’s imagination the way a blonde Palestinian girl with her flailing hair slapping an Israeli soldier did. Muhammad’s fate almost became a non-issue as Israelis from all political persuasions began to debate on social media whether Ahed should be prosecuted, with the right wing Israeli minister for defence, Avigdor Lieberman, saying that Ahed “will get what she deserves”. Apparently the Israeli soldier would never get what he deserved because in the Palestinian occupied territories there is justice only for the occupiers. The media hype around the slap was a convenient way for the Israelis to distract attention from the real crime that had been committed - a cold-blooded shooting of a Palestinian boy who had been playing soccer with his friends and was then lying in a coma with a bullet in his brain. But the story doesn’t end there. As Muhammad was rushed by ambulance past checkpoints to get to hospital, his father (who is a taxi driver) in hot pursuit of the ambulance with his son dying inside, the Israeli soldiers refused to allow the father through the checkpoint. “Go back to Nabu Saleh and tell the people to stop demonstrating and then we will let you through,” they said. Muhammad’s father had to drive an additional 40km to take another route to get to his son. The doctors got the bullet out his brain but had to remove a third of his skull to allow for the swelling of the brain. For four months the boy was at home with a hole in his skull, but more drama was yet to come. Some weeks later, Muhammad was asleep in his family home, when at 3am 30 Israeli soldiers stormed his house and forced the family out into the rain while they searched the house, destroying furniture. A scene right out of apartheid South Africa in the 1980s. When they were done they blindfolded and handcuffed Muhammad and forced him to walk for 2km in the rain to a watch tower from where he was taken in a bus to a military camp. For the next five hours they proceeded to interrogate him, refusing to give him his seizure medication. What they wanted was for him to sign a document saying he was injured when falling off a bicycle. Slapping and punching his shoulder, they also wanted the names of children in the village who threw stones. Muhammad’s father was even called and told to come and watch the interrogation of his son, but when he arrived they refused him access. Muhammad never capitulated to their demands. Regardless, the Israeli military general heading the co- ordination of the army in the occupied territories claimed that Muhammad’s injury had occurred while falling off a bike, until the doctors supplied the general with a video of them extracting the bullet from his brain, which was also posted on Facebook. The intimidation continued and in June plain-clothes officers kidnapped Muhammad as he walked towards his family home and proceeded to beat him during interrogation, in an attempt to get him to confess that he was involved in stone-throwing. He was released at midnight after significant pressure from the family and on social media. As if that was not enough trauma, in the month of Ramadaan Muhammad’s cousin was shot and killed by Israeli soldiers during the school holidays while his parents were at work. After his cousin was shot, the family were denied access to him and the Israeli soldiers delayed getting him to a hospital, ultimately putting him in a Jeep and leaving him for dead at the hospital. This is a horrific trail of trauma, and yet another generation of Palestinian youngsters is growing up knowing nothing other than brutality and repression. Cry the beloved country of Palestine, the country that is still to be born, or was born but never recognised by a world that so easily ignores what is happening right under its nose.  * Shannon Ebrahim is the group foreign editor at Independent Media.