DURBAN – Facebook has unveiled powerful new tools and resources to help youth, professionals and entrepreneurs in South Africa to access new career opportunities. The tools are an enhanced Mentorship tool, and an improved Jobs on Facebook product. The launch of these resources falls in line with Facebook’s commitment to training business owners across Africa as well as equipping people with the skills they need to thrive in the modern digital workplace. "South Africa and Africa is important to Facebook. With more than a billion people there is strong business momentum and opportunity in many countries across the continent" said Facebook. The new and improved Facebook career resources are as follows: In 2017 Facebook launched Jobs on Facebook which has helped people find over 1 million jobs. Besides posting jobs to their Page, businesses can now share their jobs in Groups. Today, more than 200 million people on Facebook are members of Groups they consider meaningful, and this update will allow people who may be interested and qualified to better discover open roles. The Mentorship tool connects people in Groups who are seeking mentorship with others in their community who have relevant experience or expertise. Facebook is making it simpler for people in Groups to choose a mentorship partner based on their goals and interests.  People can sign up to share information about what they’re offering or looking for. Then others in the Group can browse a list of those available people to find a match and reach out directly. Each week the tool gives pairs helpful cues to keep the conversation going. Emilar Gandhi the Public Policy Manager for the SADC Region Facebook said, "Together with partners such as Livity and Digify, we are training thousands of people in Africa with the digital skills they need to compete in the modern workplace. With our updated career resources, we are furthering this commitment, helping people access new career opportunities and upgrade their digital skills". Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE