DURBAN – Pick n Pay is hosting a Stokvel Bonanza/Party, where the retailer will engage with stokvel groups and provide advice on pricing for the upcoming festive season. The stokvel groups that attend the bonanza will have the chance to meet with various food suppliers through talks, dance and competitions. Members can expect advice on what to buy and will get great specials on the day, especially for buying in bulk. Members can also be inspired by budget recipe ideas that they can use to create meals for big groups and receive education on how to get more value for money using specific grocery brands. Also, there will be a free tasting of recipes using local brands. Papi Rapolai, General Manager for Wholesale and Stokvel at Pick n Pay said, "We want to engage directly with stokvel community members. We want to understand their challenges and buying behaviours and help them manage better financially, providing them with helpful and practical information on how best to shop for great value for their money". This is planned as a comprehensive event extending beyond financial advice, so groups will also receive tips on how to exercise and keep healthy. Stokvel groups will stand the chance to win their share of the prizes up for grabs on the day, valued at R1 million. Included in the prize is a group trip to Mauritius and Hart Pots to the value of R20 000. There will also be lots of instant prizes throughout the day. Earlier this year, Pick n Pay partnered with Absa to launch a new Grocery Stokvel Account to cater for groups saving for groceries or other store-bought essentials. With this, stokvels will earn a competitive interest rate on balances of as little as R50, and spend their stokvels’ money safely and conveniently at Pick n Pay, where they will also receive further savings on groceries with the Smart Shopper Wholesale Stokvel card. "Through our Grocery Stokvel Account we have been regularly engaging with stokvels and it’s become clear many groups aren’t aware they could be putting their savings to better use. We believe there is a need for more collaborative sharing amongst stokvels to improve outcome," said Rapolai. Entrance to the Pick n Pay Stokvel Party is free. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE