President Cyril Ramaphosa’s robust engagement with the EU this week signalled that South Africa is seeking to strengthen relations with all countries - east or west. This is imperative at a time when South Africa’s economy needs significant new investment and increased trade in order to achieve desired levels of economic growth and create new jobs. Five years had passed since the last EU-South Africa Summit, and Ramaphosa characterised this week’s Summit at the EU parliament in Strasbourg as “historic” saying “South Africa has a friend and ally in the European Union.” The EU is South Africa’s largest trading partner, and Ramaphosa made a point of emphasizing that South Africa’s trade has increased four-fold with the EU over the past two decades. Currently 2,000 European based companies are operating in South Africa, and it is hoped that following Ramaphosa’s extensive engagements this week the number will increase further. This would be in keeping with the vision articulated by the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker who strongly supports the Africa-Europe Alliance for Sustainable Development and Jobs. Juncker made a point of saying at the Summit, “We would like to forge the type of relationship, not based on condescension, but we want to share ideas and steer a way to move forward to establish a well-balanced relationship.” This appeared to be an effort to make a clear break from the colonial overtones that had historically characterized engagement between European countries and the African continent. “I don’t hope that the next summit between South Africa and the European Union will take another five years. That was a major mistake, I don’t know who is responsible for that. If it was up to me, the next summit will take place next Friday morning at 11 o’clock,” Juncker said. Both South Africa and the EU are strong proponents of a rules-based multilateral trading system and global order, and shun the unilateralism that has more recently characterised US foreign policy under President Donald Trump. On issues such as migration, climate change, human rights, and free trade South Africa and the EU are most often on the same page. “Unilateralism is on the rise and threatens to undermine our collective commitment to democratic values and respect for human rights,” Ramaphosa told the European parliament, denouncing “the resurgence of racism and xenophobia cloaked in the mantle of nationalism.” Ramaphosa’s discussions with EU policy makers came amid the firestorm in Britain regarding Brexit, and the exit from British Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet of a number of her cabinet ministers who are unhappy with her current stance. “The impact of Brexit on South Africa should not be negative,” Ramaphosa has assured South Africans. The Saturday Star