Cape Town - Thousands of runners are expected to hit the streets on December 16 for the RCS Gugulethu Reconciliaton Day Race. The event, which starts and ends at the NY49 Stadium in Gugulethu, comprises a 10km and 4.2km race or fun run or walk. Music, spot prizes, food stalls and loads of fun activities for the young ones make this the perfect family day out. The 10km run takes participants past the Gugulethu Mall and Gugulethu Junction and on to Manenberg, before heading back to the Gugulethu Stadium. En route, runners will pass some of the key attractions that have shaped the township, including the house of one of South Africa’s greatest athletes, Mzoli Ngcawuzele, now famously the owner of Mzolí’s Place - the township’s hippest hangout, and the Gugulethu Seven memorial. We speak to Regan Adams, CEO of RCS. 1. What is the story behind the RCS Gugs Race? Why is this race so significant to South Africans? The race is the only one of its kind in the Western Cape. It’s unique as runners get to experience the vibrant atmosphere of running through Gugulethu. It is far more than just a race, it’s a celebration of people regardless of their gender, race or age with the view of coming together in the spirit of unity. Through this race we hope to also raise awareness around township living and needs and how all of us as South Africans can get involved in the betterment of these societies. 2. With this being the township’s 60th anniversary – and Gugulethu being Xhosa for 'our pride' - how has the RCS Gugs Race been instrumental in instilling a sense of pride in runners from this vibrant township? Why did RCS decide to sponsor this race in particular, when looking for opportunities 9 years ago? RCS contributes by sponsoring the Gugulethu Athletic Club, which we have done for the past 18 years, and the RCS Gugs Race, of which we are title sponsor for the 9th year. We believe that through sport and being part of something significant, we can assist individuals by channeling their energy into positive and rewarding activities, especially in the township community. The race forms part of the annual Gugs Athletics Club calendar and we are proud to bring people from across the province to participate in this community based initiative. There is also an enormous sense of pride in the RCSGUGS runners who belong to the club. RCSGUGS is more than just a club, it's a family that takes pride in supporting and caring for each other beyond running activities. 3. Looking into the future, what is your vision for the RCS Gugs Race? This is such a unique race that we want everyone to experience it, so it's our objective to grow the race in size and participation, to the benefit of the club and its community. The proceeds from the race serve not just to enhance the club's activities,  but also for sponsorship to facilitate community upliftment. We also want it to be an event where the local community can benefit by providing services and products at the race. 4. How can people enter the race this year? They can enter on the day at the NY Stadium in Gugulethu or enter online at entrytime.com