Cape Town – Addressing racism will be high on the agenda at Rondebosch Boys’ Preparatory School next year, following two incidents. Parents received a letter from the headmaster on Friday, telling them about the incidents and asking them to start opening the conversations with their children. The letter said both incidents involved Grade 7 pupils and were directed at two black boys involving the use of derogatory terms. In both instances, headmaster Ian Ryan said there were conversations with the boys and their parents and serious consequences resulted for the boys concerned. “We hope that these consequences are not just punitive but help with change and restoration,” said Ryan. He said the school “unequivocally affirms that the use of such racist language is unacceptable in any circumstance, and particularly by learners on our journey towards inclusivity”. “These two incidents should give us all pause for reflection. As a school we need to acknowledge that we have, in some ways, failed our Grade 7s. "If, at the end of eight years at Rondebosch, some boys still make racist comments, we have possibly failed to take action early on, by not having created enough opportunities for these views to be challenged, worked through and transformed into an understanding that we all have a place here and that each individual, regardless of colour or creed, is valued, acknowledged and has a sense of belonging,” said the letter. “It is clear that we have not worked enough on the issues of race and difference that play out in our school. This is an issue we will prioritise in 2019. “It is our responsibility as a school, but also as parents and a broader community, to engage with the underlying issues that have led to these two serious incidents.” The school’s head of Pastoral Care, Peter Woodard, as well as the school social worker, Tracey Wood, have opened their doors to support parents to start having these conversations with children. The school did not respond to questions by the time of publication. Cape Times Cape Times