CAPE TOWN – Customisable solutions in trade credit insurance can greatly aid companies in managing their credit and counterparty exposure while also supporting growth in new markets or with existing clients. Many companies are also entering new markets and extending their supply chains across multiple regions, all of which further increases the need to protect themselves from risks involving commercial trade debts. What is Trade Credit Insurance? Trade credit insurance indemnifies a seller against losses from non-payment of trade debt arising from slow pay, insolvency and political risk in case of cross border transactions. Coverage is designed to prevent disruptive losses, reduce risk of key account concentration levels and provide risk transfer of bad debt issues. A recent industry panel debate hosted by Aon South Africa drew leading trade credit insurance experts together to unpack the key trends facing businesses of all sizes in a global economy that is facing unprecedented economic, political and social upheaval. The following are some of the key issues unpacked by the panel of experts: Market Conditions   Trading in Africa   The use of trade credit insurance as a finance facility   Securing the market for start-ups and SMEs   The value of trade credit   The need for trade credit insurance magnifies in tough economies South Africa is currently experiencing difficult political and economic conditions, which has a direct impact on the financial and trading performance of businesses.  Vulnerabilities to external shocks have also increased in a post-downgrade economy, with the impact of it slowly manifesting in financing becoming more difficult to secure and dwindling foreign direct investment. “It paints a picture of a distressed economy where the occurrence of defaulting debtors on a company’s books is increasing in response to the weak trading conditions.  Regardless of whether a business operates locally or across borders, and whether it is a large or small business, trade credit cover is essential to manage and mitigate the credit risks associated with customer debtor debt. The failure of a major customer or even several smaller customers to pay their dues can severely impact the financial health of a business,” says Maria Teixeira, Aon South Africa In the current environment where credit facilities are increasingly in demand, credit insurance becomes a necessity.  Payment protection through properly scoped credit insurance is a non-negotiable given the current market volatility and threats to business sustainability. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE