Cape Town - EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has attempted to shed light on his party's feud with Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. The party last week accused Gordhan of being in cahoots with Tiso Blackstar, the owners of the building in which the state capture hearings are being held. The EFF has also labelled Gordhan an "enabler of state capture" and a “dog of white monopoly capital”.They also accused the former finance minister of having “destroyed Peter Mokaba, Winnie Mandela he has destroyed everyone else that stood for the truth against the apartheid regime”. “Pravin has gone into all SOEs and removed all black excellence because he hates Africans, he doesn’t like Africans. Any African who speaks back to Pravin, Pravin threatens those people,” Malema had said. Party leader Julius Malema claimed that Gordhan's daughter Anisha "has 10 companies" and that she was benefitting from doing business with the government. Malema said the EFF had asked the ministers of departments which she has contracts with to confirm, but only three of those ministers had done so. When asked by SABC anchor Leanne Manas whether the EFF was not happy with Gordhan's responses to the party's concerns about directorships held by Anisha, Ndlozi said that the response to the EFF's concerns demonstrates media bias. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video "Anisha Gordhan sits on all these boards, and what happens? The media defends Anisha Gordhan. "If my father was an African leader, my face, my name would be on all the front pages of newspapers," Ndlozi said. On Monday, Gordhan laid crimen injuria and defamation against Malema at the Brooklyn Police Station in Hatfield, Pretoria. He gave the police details of all the public statements Malema and EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu made against him. The EFF, in turn, has vowed to open a criminal case against Gordhan on Tuesday at the Brooklyn police station. The party said it would charge him with money laundering, corruption, racketeering, fraud, contravention of the Intelligence Act and the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, and perjury.