CAPE TOWN – A group of South African companies departs for Sweden on Saturday to participate in the Outward Selling Mission (OSM) that will take place in Malmo from November 12 to 16. The OSM organised by the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) in partnership with the Western Cape Investment and Trade Promotion Agency (Wesgro) and the Swiss Import Promotion Programme (SIPPO). According to the Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies, the OSM to Sweden seeks to promote exports of the South African natural and organic products. The group’s programme includes showcasing their products and services at the Natural Products Scandinavia Show which will also take place in the Swedish city of Malmo. This will be preceded by a business seminar, business-to-business meetings and site visits. “The trade mission is part of the dti’s efforts to achieve its objective of creating market access for South African products and services in markets with high export potential. We have particularly selected a group of exporters of natural and organically certified ingredients, processed foods, drinks and cosmetic products in alignment with the department’s market and product diversification strategy,” says Davies. The Natural Products Scandinavia Show is combined with the Nordic Organic Food Fair which is the leading organic food and drink trade show in the Nordic region. The fair attracts key trade buyers from leading health stores, supermarket chains, wholesalers, distributors, importers, exporters, online retailers, independent retailers, hotels and restaurants, as well as buyers from the public sector. Last year, Natural Products Scandinavia attracted more than 480 exhibitors from 40 countries and more than 4 000 visitors from 60 countries. Davies adds that in the long term the mission is expected to contribute in addressing the trade imbalance which has always been heavily skewed in favour of Sweden. South Africa’s exports to Sweden amounted to more than R2.4 billion in 2017 while imports from the Nordic country totalled over R12 billion in the same period. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE