According to Xinhau, China’s state news agency, the newest member of its newsroom, Qiu Hao, will report “tirelessly” all day and every day. “Not only can I accompany you 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, I can be endlessly copied and present at different scenes to bring you the news,” said the robot. You can see why he will quickly be a hit with news organisations. There will be no need for make-up and hair appointments - which are very costly. The frequency of a wardrobe change will be reduced. And dealing with inflated egos now becomes a thing of the past. Other than the cost of purchasing the robot, there are no other major costs; no salary, pension or medical aid. This guy won’t get sick or take annual leave. You can even send him with a camera into a burning building or war zone knowing that if he doesn’t make it out, you can replace him with a replica. I won’t be surprised if other television and radio channels quickly follow suit. Given the many problems at Lotus FM (see Herald) it may not be a bad option for the SABC. What robots will not be able to do, just yet, is make sense of the information that comes our way. Take for example, the recent midterm elections that were held in the US. In terms of the facts, the Democrats won the House of Representatives but the Republicans tightened their grip on the Senate. But it took someone like columnist Gwynne Dyer (writing in the Daily News) to point out that the results will do nothing to stop the war between the two parties. Why? Well, according to him, Americans have become an unhappy and angry lot and neither party understands why. Or, if they did, they are not prepared to deal with the reality. This reality, according to Dyer, is that Americans are losing their jobs because machines are taking over. They’re angry and lashing out. It is worrying because our education system is preparing our children for a past that no longer exists and not the future they will inherit. If you are free mid-morning next Saturday, join me when I deliver a talk to the South African Writers’ Circle, at 11.30am at the Westville Library. For more information go to sawriters.org.za/about/ or call 0761544621. It may be good to attend because in a few years from now, it may be robots who are doing the talking. * Aakash Bramdeo is the editor of the Sunday Tribune