An alleged drug merchant, believed to be a former cop, has been shot inside her house in Mitchells Plain. Police have confirmed they are investigating the incident in which the 36-year-old woman and one other person were shot multiple times and wounded at a house in Tulip Street, Lentegeur, on Thursday evening. In August, the same house, which belongs to the woman who apparently used to work at the Mitchells Plain SAPS, was petrol-bombed and badly burnt. The ex-cop is allegedly dealing in and selling drugs for the Junior Cisco Yakkies gang in Lentegeur, according to a police source. A community crime fighter says the woman, whose name is known to the Daily Voice, is a drug dealer for the JCYs and the petrol bomb attack was the work of rival gangs trying to take over their territory. “The homeowner is a former police officer and she now has drug ties, working as a merchant for the Yakkies,” says the crime fighter, who did not want to be identified. “The police and ambulance arrived and she was loaded up, bleeding from a klomp (lots of) shots that hit her on her chest and leg. “Sy werk vir hulle en haar dag moet kom (she works for them and her day will come). I am tired of her making our children slaves to the gangs in our area. She sold herself and wants us all to do the same.” According to the crime fighter, in April, a hand grenade and petrol bomb were also flung at the house but failed to detonate. “The attackers got her outside her house and it sounded like 20 shots were fired.” Residents did not want to speak to the media, only saying they’ve been living in fear and hope for more peaceful times now that the woman is “out of action”. Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, confirming the incident, said: “Lentegeur police are investigating cases of attempted murder subsequent to a shooting incident that occurred on Thursday evening at about 10.25pm in Tulip Street. “Upon their arrival, they found a 36-year-old woman and another unidentified victim with gunshot wounds to their bodies. “Both victims were transported to a medical facility for treatment. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation with no arrests yet.” Police would not confirm or deny whether the woman was previously employed by the SAPS.