PORT ELIZABETH- South African companies participating in the 1st China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, China, on Friday said that they were positive the event would open up investment opportunities and markets. The South African delegation consists of a mix of well-established companies and export councils representing the agro-processing, engineering, chemicals, rail, infrastructure, consumer goods and ICT sectors, a statement issued by the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) said on Friday. "South Africa’s current export basket to China consist mainly of minerals and raw materials, hence the CIIE presented us with an opportunity to showcase the diversity of value-added products South Africa is able to export to China," the dti said. "The CIIE event also provided us with an opportunity to showcase some of our export ready Black industrialist companies." Managing director of North West-based engineering company Ditsogo Project, Tebogo Mosito, said the Chinese market provided huge investment opportunities for its products. “China International Import Expo is a very great show, already we have managed to secure two clients. There’s a positive feedback from other people who have been visiting our stand. One of the two orders that I received are worth R2-million and I managed to secure them within two days,” Mosito said. Elmo Moore of Pretoria-based Paltechnologies said the company, which manufactures valves, was benefiting from its participation at the CIIE. “People here are interested in our products and they want to trade them between South Africa and the end users in China. There has been a lot of interest from agents who want to distribute our products in China." said Moore. "We will also be working with Beijing Axis to set-up an operation in China. I also met a gentleman here from Standard Bank who is based in Namibia and will introduce me to business partners from that side who will buy our products. "We are currently in a process of setting up refurbishment plant in Ghana because the dti took us to an exhibition called Wampex in June this year and that’s has been the end result of that exhibition.” Thulani Nobela of Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency said the province also benefited and that it had received enquiries mainly about its citrus fruit, coal and macadamia products. Nobela said he was positive the interest would result in trade opportunities as well as investments for the province. Trade and Industry Minister Dr Rob Davies earlier in the week addressed the South African Investment Seminar - aimed to expand on the investment opportunities in the country, particularly in the manufacturing sector - on the margins of the CIIE in Shanghai. He said such exhibitions gave South Africa an advantage to display products, goods and services to supply the Chinese market. African News Agency (ANA)