JOHANNESBURG – From December 7 the SA Revenue Service (Sars) will be implementing their new approach to use information supplied by the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) to determine which companies are not tax compliant and impose penalties accordingly. The national revenue collector issued an official notice to registered accountants and tax practitioners during October to confirm Fabian Murray, acting Sars chief officer’s announcement of the implementation of the new line of attack earlier this year. The notice, which is signed by acting Sars commissioner Mark Kingon, states that administrative penalties for late Corporate Income Tax (CIT) returns will be imposed on more than 300 000 companies. Such penalties can range from R250 to R16 000 per month of lateness. It is a well-known public fact that Sars is short on collection, and as the Tax Administration Act determines a penalty per month of lateness, this will boost their collection. The law also looks at when a company should have been registered for tax. For instance, if you opened a company five years ago and never registered it, the minimum penalty is R250 x 12 months x 5 years = R15 000. However, this minimum penalty is only applicable in instances where a company was dormant, as the law still demands CIPC and Sars compliance. Where a company is active, depending on various factors, the Tax Administration Act will determine the level of penalties applicable. What should you do if you feel nervous? The directors of companies that are found to be not tax compliant, should rightly feel uneasy, as Sars will undoubtedly come after them personally, especially where the company does not have means to pay penalties, or plainly ignores it. There are very clear company law provisions creating a personal liability against being reckless and delinquent on statutory duties. Therefore:   Melani du Toit (CA S.A.) Senior Accountant and Christopher Renwick (LLB) Tax Attorney at Tax Consulting. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE