CAPE TOWN – As South Africans prepare for the biggest shopping day on the calendar featuring massive savings taking place on November 23, retailers have started promoting their deals. Online price comparing site PriceCheck said that on Black Friday, they saw three times the number of daily visits to its online shopping comparison website on Black Friday compared to its 2017 average. According to a prediction made by PayPal, South Africans’ online shopping spend will top R53 billion by the end of 2018, up from R37.1 billion in 2017. Recently, Pick n Pay announced that it was preparing for its biggest Black Friday ever and that customers can expect deals and savings bigger and better than last year and across a variety of categories, both in-store and online. Here are deals that you can expect from some of your local retailers and online stores: 1. Loot Loot will be offering thousands of deals with up to 65 percent off during its Black Friday 2018 sale. These deals will be across various categories including Electronics, Computers, Cellular, Kitchen &amp; Home Toys, Outdoor, Books, Gaming and will feature pop-up shops with new partners. “We will be launching some teaser deals daily from November 19 to 22 and the main Black Friday sale will run from November 23 to 26. 2. Clicks The company will be having a pre-black Friday special starting from the 16th of November. However, normal Black Friday 2018 deals will be available from the 23rd of to the 25the of November.  3. Game Game has promised customers that it would be offering ‘phenomenal specials’ in every merchandise category at all its 145 stores in South Africa and Africa. It also stated that it would open a few of their stores as early as midnight on 22 November. 4. Shoprite Shoprite has promised customers its biggest Black Friday ever, with up to 50 percent off on selected products on November 23. 5. Makro Makro has announced that it hosting both Black Friday and Cyber Monday specials. 6. Checkers Checkers will be having Black Friday deals and stated that customers can sign up to receive a list of Checkers’ Black Friday deals ahead of time. 7. Mr Price The clothing store has stated that it will be having Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals. Sales will start from the 19th of November to the 26th of November. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE