CAPE TOWN – Pick n Pay on Monday launched dedicated Black Friday deals for its online customers in Johannesburg, Pretoria and Cape Town as a ‘taste’ of what is to come. Online customers can expect discounts of up to 50 percent across various categories on the Pick n Pay’s online shop, including liquor, food, toiletries and household products. Deals have also been launched for select appliances. The deals will run weekly from November 5 to 25, and the best part is that customers can shop for these products from the comfort of their own home, and delivery is quick and simple. Customers can simply pick their delivery address and choose from one of the convenient one-hour delivery slots. Pick n Pay has also added more stores to the Click n Collect option for November. John Bradshaw, Pick n Pay’s head of marketing, says that they wanted to give customers a taste of what to expect from them on Black Friday. “Over the next few weeks, we will continue to share the surprises we have planned to maximise Black Friday savings for all our customers.” Pick n Pay last month announced that they are preparing for their biggest Black Friday ever and that customers can expect deals and savings bigger and better than last year and across a variety of categories, both in-store and online. “We have been working extremely hard to bring our customers the best deals on one of the biggest shopping days of the day.” To avoid disappointment and cater to as many customers as possible, Pick n Pay has also made special arrangements to get more stock than ever before. “Not only have we arranged extra stock, but we have also increased our support team to help move and unpack products as fast as they can,” said Bradshaw. Mike Cotterell, General Manager for Online and Mobile, said that the website has also put measures in place to manage additional orders. “We will be able to scale our online infrastructure in real time as visitor volumes require so that our customers have an uninterrupted Black Friday online shopping experience. We have also increased our staffing complement to process online orders and have added additional delivery and collections slots for our Black Friday deals so that customers can enjoy their purchases as soon as possible.” BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE