CAPE TOWN – The world’s most successful entrepreneurs share the characteristics of being resourceful, innovative and highly skilled at problem-solving. They also possess the ability to get back up quickly after set-backs or failures. These are the kinds of traits leaders in accounting and business operations believe are crucial for achieving exponential success. Brandon Wilson, Director of Marketing: Global Expansion for the world’s leading online accounting software - QuickBooks, notes that accounting professionals who tap into their own entrepreneurial mind-set are better equipped to grow their practice, lead their team and serve their clients. “They are also more likely to look for new, more effective ways to optimise processes and operations. For accounting practices, this would include using online accounting software, such QuickBooks, which streamline and fast-track traditional bookkeeping processes. “In addition, the artificial intelligence-driven solution, QuickBooks Online Accountant, detects errors immediately, ensuring that a company’s books are always accurate and reducing the administrative stresses which can get the better of small- to medium-sized practices,” he says. On 14 November, professional speaker and entrepreneurship and business leader, spoke on behalf of QuickBooks at the Southern African Institute for Business Accountants (SAIBA) Planning Your Practice for 2019 Bootcamp held for small- to medium-sized accounting practitioners. At the event, presented by the South African Accounting Academy, he spoke more in depth on the topic of Unlocking the Entrepreneurial Mind-Set for Exponential Success. Mutuma notes that, while not everyone is meant to be an entrepreneur, everyone in this day and age should be entrepreneurial in their thinking and behaviour to truly succeed. He explained that this means unlocking the tools entrepreneurs use to succeed across a variety of industries - from the corporate arena, to the arts - including story-telling, engagement, differentiation and tapping into technology. Top tips Mutuma highlights seven of his top tips which he shared with small- to medium-sized accounting and bookkeeping practitioners at the Bootcamp. He encourages all aspiring entrepreneurs in the industry to give these some thought.   Wilson adds that with QuickBooks’ track record of providing accountancy professionals with the tools and platforms to support and enable the growth and impact of their practice, Mutuma’s message aligns with the brand’s aim of leveraging technologies and enabling accounting partners to grow and prosper. Content supplied by QuickBooks BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE