RUSTENBURG - The North West province is on a solid path to regain stability, Premier Job Mokgoro said. Mokgoro said the interventions by the provincial government was doing well although there were still problems. "One precondition of any turn-arounds is stabilisation. How do you behave in a normal way in a business as usual when the environment is in the kind of  turbulent as the North West has been," he said. "Although we may not be prominent in the headlines as was the case earlier this year. There is relative stability. The truth of the matter is there are sporadic outburst of dissatisfaction." The North West was embroiled in mass violent protests in April when irate residents went on a rampage barricading roads, torching buildings and looting shops in a push for former premier Supra Mahumapelo to resign. The protested started in Montshioa, Mahikeng and spilled to other areas of the province. Mahumapelo resigned in May and Mokgoro was appointed in June. Mokgoro said there were forces opposing the efforts to restore stability in the province. "There are forces who on daily basis are doing all they can and some of them are within the [African National Congress] ANC, are doing everything they can to push against the efforts I am leading, some of them are elected members of the ruling party and they think we do not know." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video The provincial government has put eight municipalities under administration but, opposition parties said there was no progress recorded at those municipalities and wanted the municipalities to be dissolved. "The [Democratic Alliance] DA is of the strong view that the North West provincial government, which is itself under Section 100 intervention by the national government, is unable to execute its obligations under the Section 139(1)(b) interventions it has launched into failing municipalities in the province," provincial DA leader Joe McGluwa said. "Logic stands that a provincial government under administration will not have the capacity to ensure the delivery of services and ensure good governance in municipalities it has placed under administration." Kagisano-Molopo, Ramotshere Moiloa, Ditsobotla, Kgetlengrivier, Maquassi Hills, Naledi, Mahikeng, Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality have been put under administration. But Mokgoro said the DA was entitled to their opinion, according to him the intervention was doing well to stabilise municipalities. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video He said they have taken action in the office of the premier and they would continue with their investigations. "Recently at a meeting I attended in Pretoria around Section 100, there were reports coming from the office of the Hawks, there is significant progress has been registered that a number of matters they were investigating have been referred to the NPA [National Prosecuting Authority].  We did not get any further details but a fact that majority of matters investigated have shifted from the Hawks to the NPA I think that also should be recognised as a significant progress." Mokgoro called on his comrades in the ANC to live according to the critical values the late former provincial secretary of the party in North West Ndleleni Duma has left. Duma who died on November 23, 2018 after a long illness. He was 60. He said those values were unity, discipline and the ability to deal with issues rather than person when you differ. "There are number of critical values that some of us in the ANC are not practicing. Our view is that we should keep alive the set of values that characterize his life," he said. African News Agency (ANA)