JOHANNESBURG – Buying your first home may seem like a dream, especially if you’re not earning a big salary. While property prices have ballooned over the years, the idea of being able to buy your dream home has floated away for many of us too. But that’s changing, and it’s all thanks to FLISP. What is FLISP? A government-backed initiative that seeks to promote and secure first-time home ownership for lower income earners in South Africa, FLISP makes it possible for people like you to own the home you want. The Finance Linked Individual Subsidy Programme (FLISP) was introduced by the Department of Human Settlements in 2012 and, in July 2018, the applicable income threshold for the programme was increased. How FLISP works FLISP provides lower and medium income earners with a substantial subsidy, that can be used to purchase property. Subject to pre-approval of a home loan, FLISP subsidies can be applied for, by any South African family whose household income falls between R3501 and R22000 per month. Previously, the maximum threshold was set at R15000 per month, but thanks to a change in legislation and additional budgetary commitments made by the South African government in July 2018, FLISP is now an option for many more citizens. What you can use a FLISP subsidy for Applying for a bond to buy your first home can seem a terrifying prospect when you’re not a big money earner. The South African government, motivated by its desire to uplift and empower every citizen, created FLISP to enable lower and medium income earners towards claiming their stake in the property market. As a subsidy, FLISP can be used to put down a deposit on your first home, or used to shorten your home loan repayment period or lower the monthly repayment amounts. It’s true: FLISP is like being given free money, just so you can afford to buy your first home. You don’t need to pay back your FLISP subsidy at any time. FLISP subsidy criteria   FLISP is a one-time payment subsidy. You cannot apply for a second FLISP subsidy when you want to purchase a second home. Your FLISP subsidy amount We used the FLISP website’s subsidy calculator to work out how much you can expect to receive from your FLISP subsidy. For example, if your household’s monthly income is between:   Where to apply for a FLISP subsidy As FLISP is a government-backed initiative, the Department of Human Settlement administers and processes applications for a FLISP subsidy. Once you’ve been pre-approved for a home loan, apply for a FLISP subsidy at your local Department of Human Settlement office, or call the National Housing Finance Corporation. Content supplied by Private Property. PERSONAL FINANCE