Srinagar, India - Government forces in Indian-controlled Kashmir fired shotgun pellets and tear gas at hundreds of mourners Saturday during a funeral march for a man killed when he was run over by a paramilitary vehicle during a protest. The angry mourners were marching with the man's body to a graveyard in Srinagar on Saturday when police and soldiers used force to stop them. Police said the marchers were defying a government order that bans assembly of more than four people in the city. Residents said youths from the funeral regrouped in the winding streets of the city's downtown and threw stones at troops while chanting slogans in favour of rebels and demanding an end to Indian rule over the disputed region. Fierce clashes broke out in several places in the city. Police later took the custody of the body and allowed only a handful of relatives to take the body for the burial the city's main martyr's graveyard where hundreds of rebels and civilians killed since the start of an anti-India armed rebellion are buried. The man was critically injured Friday and died overnight in a hospital after a paramilitary armoured vehicle crushed at least two men during an anti-India protest. Armed police and paramilitary soldiers laid razor wire and steel barricades at roads and enforced a curfew in old parts of Srinagar to restrict participation in the funeral. Authorities cut mobile internet services in Srinagar, and reduced connection speeds in other parts of the Kashmir Valley, a common government practice to prevent anti-India demonstrations from being organized. Friday's incident was the second of its kind in recent weeks. Last month, a young man was killed when a when a police armoured vehicle ran over him during clashes with government forces in Srinagar. Anti-India sentiment runs deep in Kashmir, a disputed Himalayan territory divided between nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan but claimed by both in its entirety. In recent years, the Indian-controlled portion has seen renewed rebel attacks and repeated public protests against Indian rule. Residents said the armoured vehicle in Friday's incident drove wildly into a crowd of anti-India protesters, slamming into a half-dozen people and crushing at least two men beneath its wheels, injuring them critically. An Associated Press photographer captured the horror in a series of photographs of the other injured man, who doctors say is still in critical condition. Indian officials blamed the protesters and said the crowd was trying to drag the soldiers from their vehicle. Police, however, said the incident was a mistake by the nervous driver. AP