Johannesburg - City of Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba on Thursday confirmed he had reinstated DA councillor and member of Johannesburg’s mayoral committee (MMC) Mpho Phalatse. Phalatse was suspended after she expressed solidarity for Israel on behalf of the city without consulting or approval from the party. “I would like to declare that I am a friend of Israel, and the city of Johannesburg is a friend of Israel! Shalom Shalom!," Phalatse said on Twitter. Her tweet drew heavy criticism and led to her suspension pending an investigation. READ: Mashaba suspends DA councillor over pro-Israel tweet Mashaba in a statement confirmed he had reinstated Phalatse following the conclusion of an investigation into the matter, which concluded that: * Phalatse's statement did not contravene DA policy position of the party on its commitment to a two-state solution in which a secure and prosperous Israel coexists peacefully alongside a secure and prosperous Palestine. * Phalatse failed to ensure that sound judgement, to be expected of public representatives in the multi-party government, informed the manner in which she approached her official duties when she made the statement in question. * Arising from this, Phalatse must be reprimanded for her remarks on behalf of the City of Johannesburg. "Arising from the conclusion of this process, it is my decision that Phalatse should be reinstated as a MMC effective June 28, 2018 and that she should be publicly reprimanded for her remarks in name of the City of Johannesburg. "As the mayor, I have spoken to Phalatse and I am appreciative that she is remorseful for the impact of her remarks. Mashaba further said that: "I have conveyed to her that her reinstatement must be conditional on two further actions which she has accepted: "That she issue a public apology for her remarks on behalf of the City. This was issued by Phalatse of her own volition on 26 June 2018. "That she attend a workshop, from an appropriate body, to better understand the complexity of issues in the Middle East. Mashaba hailed Phalatse's contribution and leadership, adding that residents in need of health care services "would be best served by the return of Phalatse and affording her the opportunity to contribute to a healthier and more socially cohesive City". IOL