This week saw the first fashion showcase evening, where eight designers chosen for the VDJ Invited Designer Showcase wowed the audience with their theme interpretations. Casey Jeanne took inspiration from ancient Egypt, saying: “The shapes are all very geometric, which we have used in the hand beading we are creating.” Menswear designer Sandile Mngadi showcased his trademark tailoring on his time travel journey, saying, “We have delved into some classic trends from the past and taken it into a futuristic direction.” Popular Durban designer Zama Mathe said she had explored the “structure and volume of Victorian fashion and the adventurous ‘70s, using garments made from terracotta fabrics”, while Vino Moodley touched on eras when fashion had made an impact. Paledi Segapo stunned with an unusual, decadent range, saying: “I incorporated a disco ball-inspired fabric, using sequins,” while JJSchoeman couldn’t resist breaking away from his hallmark design aesthetic by doing an avant garde piece, saying: “I wanted to do something unexpected”. Back in town for VDJ, former Durban designer Leigh Schubert was happy to be back and well-known Kathrin Kidger referenced a hallmark cream and beige outfit that helped establish her career And still to reveal his work on the day, legendary designer David Tlale, in partnership with key sponsor Vodacom, is set to launch his luxurious Red collection at the event. With his legacy of lavish beauty, Tlale said the new collection would stay ”faithful to his opulent designs and enticing silhouettes”, all of which will be revealed when the collection debuts at the Vodacom Durban July Main Stage, followed by a private showcase at the Paddocks for VIP Vodacom Red guests. “Red is shorthand for passion, strength and power, yet remains modern and feminine. “In this collection I’ve played with various hues and fabrics which speak an entirely new language. “Each look will showcase the story one tells when wearing this, the boldest of all the colours,” said Tlale. The much-anticipated day, which brings all the who’s who of South Africa down to the Kingdom of the Zulus, also comes with some changes this year. Edwina Brown of Events World said one of these changes is the main stage moving to the golf course. “We’ve done this to create a larger public area with a bar and food area, as well as a stage for artists who will be putting on performances,” she said. Additionally, this year will see all marquees raised in an effort for everyone to have a view of the track. Brown said the public area would boast performances by recent SA Music Award-winning artist Tresor and BET Music Awards nominees Distruction Boyz, as well as renowned gqom music producer and artist DJ Tira. Idols SA presenter and Sama-winning rapper Proverb will MC the event. And after bagging three Samas last month, Durban singer and songwriter Shekhinah will be performing at the Amstel Boomtown marquee. David Airey, director of Boomtown Events, which also hosts the Glenlivet JazzTown Marquee, said ticket sales were “going exceptionally well so far and we are on track for a sold out marquee on the day”, adding that this year’s music line-up would be headed by legendary South African songstress Thandiswa Mazwai and Afro-soul hitmaker Ringo Madlingozi. Also hitting the VDJ for the second time, the Opulent Experience Marquee has sold two-thirds of its available tickets, across various packages. “We anticipate selling out within the next two weeks, according to the number of booking enquiries we have received,” said Lisa Modisane of Opulent Experience. She said their entertainment line-up included the likes of Sama-winning duo Real Black Motion, award-winning duo Major League, as well as DJ Capital, DJ Christos, Euphonik and Oskido. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY