It's Youth Month and one of the biggest issues affecting young South Africans is unemployment. With that in mind, IOL has partnered with next generation learning specialists Eiffel Corp to offer you a chance to win a seat on microlearning platform, Grovo, an amazing - and useful -  prize that that will help you create the brighter future you deserve. Grovo was founded in 2010 to make it quick and easy for people to learn new skills using bite-sized video lessons that cut through the noise and make learning stick. Winners will have access for 3 months to 2000+ lessons at the touch of a button, ready to help you thrive. Learn any time and in any place. "Technology is reinventing learning for the 21st century,” says Clare Reilly, Marketing & Sales Manager at Eiffel Corp. A study out of Germany* shows that short content or microlearning drives information retention by over 20% or more and technology can play a key part in this honing of retention. The reason (and the irony) behind microlearning’s superior information retention is that as a method, microlearning is basically unconcerned with information transfer. The kind of learning you did in school, where you learned things from a book and had to apply them towards a test, is not what microlearning designs to achieve. But in the process of doing its day job - helping learners build successful behaviours - microlearning moonlights as a good transmitter of information, too. Microlearning gives people digestible, relevant, interactive learning resources they can apply right away. Learners process and reflect constantly. So a microlearning moment, presents a complete learning cycle of cognitive work and reflection. And there are many microlearning moments over the course of learning something. Multiplying the number of learning cycles multiplies learning outcomes. According to Deidre Gouws, eLearning consultant for Eiffel Corp, most students learn large chunks of content subjects without testing themselves in between. “As this study (in Germany) shows, frequent testing, feedback and interaction with the content, leads to greater retention, and thus greater success,” she said. The best part of all of this is that the micro approach doesn’t just help learners hold onto content. Microlearning isn’t trying to innovate the textbook. It’s a method of changing learner behaviours through small, participatory learning resources. The upshot, it seems, is that the same mechanisms that transform behaviours also drive information retention. And that’s something to get excited about. Gouws elaborated that short engagement skills-development tools like Grovo use 60-second on-demand learning videos to deliver content in a fun and engaging way. “The younger generation are so accustomed to receiving information in small bite-size chunks on social media ... so providing short instructional videos and small, focused chunks of content is a proven way to engage 21st century brains,” said Reilly. To enter, answer the question below: What is microlearning? Send your name, phone number and answer to IOLCompetitions@inl.co.za with Grovo in the subject line. Competition Rules: The IOL/Eiffel Corp Grovo competition will run for five weeks until July 6. Two winners will be picked per week. IOL is 100% committed to protecting your privacy. We use the information collected to enable you to enjoy the prize draws on the website. When you enter a competition with us, we ask for your name, email address and mobile number. We use this information to manage the prize draws. We use email addresses to notify winners to let them know they have won a prize. We use the mobile numbers provided in order to contact the winner and for prize delivery. Competitions are only open to people residing in South Africa. The winners names may be published on our social media pages. Employees of Independent Media, the sponsors & their agents, or any company associated with the competition & their immediate families are not eligible to enter. • Prizes are not transferable or redeemable for cash. •  The judge’s decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. •  Receipt of entries will not be acknowledged. • The entrant accepts that entry to the competition does not constitute a contract or any form of legal commitment between the entrant and the IOL.