Cape Town - Once you’ve spent some time in your job, whether it’s your first job, or you have already moved through the ranks, a career path is an important journey to map. According to Clare Reilly, Marketing & Sales Manager at Eiffel Corp, millennial professionals regard the potential for career progression as a top priority when choosing a new job. "In fact, 91% consider it vital to their career choice. Career progression is a high priority for millennials and they expect their employer to support them,” said Reilly. If career advancement is at the top of your list of priorities, whether via promotion to to move to a different department, a career path provides a guide to reach your professional goal and outlines the steps you need to take it achieve them. Promotion or development within an organisation is your responsibility, not your manager or the HR department. Having a destination will keep you inspired and a map is there to guide you through each step. Online microlearning platform Grovo has some tips to help you develop a career map, and their bite-sized on-demand videos make learning quick and easy. IOL has teamed up with Eiffel Corp, the accredited reseller for Grovo in Africa, to give you a chance to win 3 months access to the platform's wide range 2000+ lessons at the touch of a button. See details below. Here's 6 tips from Grovo on how to develop a career map:   Reilly encouraged leaders to get more comfortable with the accelerated career advancement expectations of millennials and arm themselves with a few strategies to satisfy their desire for career progression. A pre-defined career path is also very valuable for employers. It provides an avenue for a company to develop skills internally and incentivises talented employees to stay within an organisation. Employee retention is first prize for employers: loyalty can’t be bought and there is a cost-saving incentive. * ENTER OUR IOL/Eiffel Corp competition and stand a chance to win 3 months access to online microlearning platform Grovo. Answer the following question and mail your answer to IOLCompetitions@inl.co.za: Name one tip on how to develop your career map? Competition Rules: The IOL/Eiffel Corp Grovo competition will run for five weeks until July 6. Two winners will be picked per week. IOL is 100% committed to protecting your privacy. We use the information collected to enable you to enjoy the prize draws on the website. When you enter a competition with us, we ask for your name, email address and mobile number. We use this information to manage the prize draws. We use email addresses to notify winners to let them know they have won a prize. We use the mobile numbers provided in order to contact the winner and for prize delivery. Competitions are only open to people residing in South Africa. The winners names may be published on our social media pages. Employees of Independent Media, the sponsors & their agents, or any company associated with the competition & their immediate families are not eligible to enter. • Prizes are not transferable or redeemable for cash. •  The judge’s decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. •  Receipt of entries will not be acknowledged. • The entrant accepts that entry to the competition does not constitute a contract or any form of legal commitment between the entrant and the IOL.