New York - Kate Spade, the designer who
built a fashion empire on her signature handbags before selling
the brand, was found dead in her New York City apartment on
Tuesday morning in an apparent suicide, police said. Spade, 55, hanged herself and was found by her housekeeper
at her home on Park Avenue on Manhattan's Upper East Side, the
New York Daily News reported, citing unnamed police officials. Born Katherine Noel Brosnahan, the Kansas City, Missouri,
native was a former accessories editor at the now-closed
Mademoiselle magazine before she and Andy Spade launched their
namesake design company, Kate Spade New York, in 1993. The
couple married the following year. They began by selling handbags before expanding to include
clothing, jewelry, bedding, legwear and fragrances. The brand grew into a fashion empire, known for accessories
that offered affordable luxury to younger working women. Her
brightly colored, clean-lined style offered a spunky take on
fashion at time when luxury handbags were out of reach to most
consumers, and the industry was dominated by venerable European
brands. The couple sold the brand in 2006. In 2016, they launched a
new fashion brand called Frances Valentine, which sells footwear
and accessories. Tapestry Inc, the handbag company formerly known as
Coach, eventually bought the Kate Spade brand in May 2017 to tap
millennials, who are drawn to the company’s quirky satchels and
colorful tote bags. The deal also turned Coach into a multibrand fashion house,
a strategy that European counterparts such as Louis Vuitton
have built their businesses on. Kate Spade New York released a statement calling the news
"incredibly sad." "Although Kate has not been affiliated with the brand for
more than a decade, she and her husband and creative partner,
Andy, were the founders of our beloved brand," the statement
said. "Kate will be dearly missed." The New York Police Department confirmed the designer's
death under her birth name. Spade's business representatives did
not respond to a request for comment. Fans of the brand began posting pictures of their favorite
handbags on social media in reaction to the death. Chelsea
Clinton, daughter of former U.S. President Bill Clinton, was
among celebrities to mourn Spade on social media. "My grandmother gave me my first Kate Spade bag when I was
in college," she wrote on Twitter. "I still have it." The singer Josh Groban also extended condolences.
"Depression does not discriminate and comes without warning," he
wrote on Twitter. "RIP Kate Spade." Reuters