Pretoria - An urgent investigation commissioned by Tshwane City Manager, Dr Moeketsi Mosola has absolved Mayor Solly Msimanga of any wrongdoing in the controversial appointment of former City of Tshwane’s chief of staff Marietha Aucamp. Aucamp quit in May after it was revealed that she did not have the proper qualifications for the position. “The findings are as follows … the executive mayor [Msimanga] has been exonerated from the impropriety. It is important to note that when the chief of staff was appointed on contract, the executive mayor was literally few days in office. That would have necessitated intense advice from the department of human resources, guiding the mayor and his office in making sure correct procedures are followed,” said Mosola. “The investigation has said the department of human resources failed to be able to perform that function. It is also important to note that when the chief of staff was appointed on [a] contract basis for a five-year contract, the executive mayor was less than two months in the city, as a new mayor. Again, [that would have] necessitated intense advice from the human resources, which did not forth come.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The probe found that Aucamp had “misrepresented her qualifications by stating that she has a B. Tech (Bachelor of Technology) degree on a competency assessment form that she submitted”. Mosola said that it has also been found that Aucamp’s appointment was irregular. He said it has been recommended that heads must roll at Tshwane human resources (HR) department. “The recommendations to me, as the accounting officer and city manager, are as follows … that I should subject the HR officials involved to a disciplinary process leading to a consequence management. I have already instructed the city governance and support officer, and our legal department to begin this process immediately,” said Mosola. Msimanga reiterated that he would resign “if found to be in any way involved in directing any of the things that led to Ms Aucamp being appointed”. “The report, the investigation has clearly stated that I had nothing to do with Ms Aucamp’s [appointment] or whatever manipulation that did take place. That is exactly what I said, so I don’t have a reason to resign. That is where it ends,” said Msimanga. The opposition in Tshwane, the African National Congress, insist Msimanga wrongfully sat on the panel which appointed Aucamp -- flouting rules and regulations on appointment of senior managers. "He further scored her highest, in fact gave her maximum points. It is frivolous that the mayor and his drum majorettes sat in the panel that appointed Aucamp, who has an imaginary bachelor's degree and has listed [DA federal chairman] James Selfe as a reference. It is criminal that the city didn't apply for a waiver as informed by the local government act, including the policy of the city," said head of the ANC in the Tshwane Council Mapiti Matsena. African News Agency (ANA)