The duo walked into the surgery of Dr Ayesha Rahbeeni, situated between Perth Road and Prince George Drive in 5th Avenue, Grassy Park, on Thursday, 31 May, shortly after noon. They pretended to be sick, but then threatened the female doctor and her assistant at gunpoint and tied them up. They robbed the doctor and assistant and two other patients in the waiting area of cash, cellphones and personal belongings. The robbery has caused an outcry on social media, where people took to Facebook to condemn the suspects for targeting a doctor’s surgery. Mark wrote: “Wow if you cannot even go to a doctor when * are sick without been feared of crimes that can happen [sic].” Carolyn posted: “Unwanted elements like these don’t belong on this earth and should be disposed of permanently [sic].” A frustrated Gwen wrote: “Nou begin dinge regtag hand uit raak kyk waar gaan die varke al bydi dokter. Waar’s die army?” (Now things are really getting out of hand look where the pigs are going at the doctor. Where's the army?) The surgery was closed on Thursday and calls to it went unanswered. Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, says the suspects are still on the run and are wanted for business robbery. “According to reports, two men entered the surgery and pose as patients. They threatened the doctor and the assistant with a firearm and tied them up before robbing them and two patients of cash, cellphones and valuables,” says Rwexana. Suspect one is described as a coloured man in his mid-forties, of medium build, light of complexion, between 1.75m and 1.8m tall. He wore a grey hooded top and red peak cap. He has thick eyebrows and thin lips. Rwexana said the second suspect is a dark-skinned coloured man in his mid-thirties, with thick lips, between 1.85m and 1.9m tall and of slender build. He wore a blue T-shirt and a blue peak cap. Rwexana urged residents to make use of the SAPS reward system. “Crime and criminals can be reported and a reward could be received by the reporter,” Rwexana added. Anyone with information about the robbery can contact detective Sergeant Adiel Noordien Bongashe on 021 700 3908 or 078 353 2922. Daily Voice