Johannesburg - The ANC’s top brass is set to finally choose the successor to former North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Mahumapelo resigned as head of the troubled province last month following a sustained violent campaign after he was accused of corruption and running the administration into the ground. The ANC is now under pressure to fill the post by Friday as the law prescribes that the vacancy must be filled within 30 days. There are divisions in the ANC-led alliance over who should take over. The ANC’s national working committee will have to choose among Speaker of the provincial legislature Susan Dantjie, former North West director-general Professor Tebogo Mokgoro, and former ambassador Jerry Matjila. Cosatu’s provincial secretary Job Dliso said none of the names proposed by them had been included in the list of eligible candidates for premiership, including that of ANC veteran Zakes Tolo. “We were looking for the wisdom of the NEC and we are disappointed by them for not being decisive and not coming up with the name that was raised by alliance partners. All these names are from the PEC of the ANC and none of our names is appearing there. The popular name was Zakes Tolo,” Dliso said. Tolo has been one of Mahumapelo’s vocal critics and backed calls for his removal. The special NEC also decided to endorse the newly-elected Free State leadership, despite threats from a disgruntled group to take the party to court if it did not disband it by Monday. Another grouping from the Eastern Cape - which approached the South Gauteng High Court on Monday in a bid to have the ANC’s chaotic provincial conference held in October last year set aside - vowed to fight the party’s top brass through the courts. A report of former transport minister Sbu Ndebele’s panel, which probed the violence that took place at the conference, recommended the dissolution of the PEC under chairperson Oscar Mabuyane. Speaking on behalf of the group, Mawande Ndakisa said they rejected the ANC’s call for members to stop fighting it in courts, adding that President Cyril Ramaphosa and the new NEC were also products of the courts. “Cyril secured a victory in that conference through courts. They cannot, after being assisted by the courts to secure victory, come and say people must not go to court. They are a direct product of the courts. Court dissolved our provincial structures and set them aside before the national conference,” Ndakisa said. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe had not replied to questions by the time of going to press. Political Bureau