The SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) blamed misconduct and a jobs-for-pals syndicate at the Joburg city council for the ongoing protests by former Pikitup workers. Hundreds of former workers who were employed as contractors between 2010 and 2011 picketed outside the Pikitup entrance in Selby Depot in Joburg this week. They were demanding their jobs back. Their contracts were terminated in 2011. They claimed the company refused to retain them because of a jobs-for-pals scheme, alleging that 2800 workers from outside Gauteng were hired instead. Samwu regional secretary in Joburg Bafana Zungu said the jobs-for-pals syndrome was conducted by those in the Human Resources Department under the city manager’s supervision. “It’s worrisome because the mayor (Herman Mashaba) is implicated, therefore he won’t be able to play an oversight role in the whole fiasco. Yet again, the mayor and Pikitup management are undermining Labour Relations Act (LRA) and Employment Equity Act (EEA) policies. This is coupled with the mayor’s refusal of authentic consultation and bargaining at the labour forums, where consultation, reporting and accounting of fair labour practices must be tabled,” said Zungu. The former employees claim they were promised permanent employment when their contracts were terminated. A former employee, Nomfundiso Ndabeni, said she was selected to resume work on July 25 but was told her name was not on the list. “They couldn’t respond when I asked why my name was no longer on the list. Instead, they called security to escort me off the premises. This was not fair because they said they would rehire 1200 people whose employment was terminated in 2011, and 1400 people from Jozi@work but they said there was nothing they could do as our names were not on the list,” she said. Pikitup spokesperson Muzi Mkhwanazi rubbished the claims. The Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (Imatu) is demanding the insourcing and absorption of former workers be ceased immediately. Regional manager at Imatu Mark-Lee Gericke said the union was concerned that Pikitup did not follow the agreement. “There is a collective agreement between parties as to the requirements and process and Imatu will ensure the agreement is honoured by all parties. Imatu will enforce the agreement and does not necessarily support the protesters. If the protesters should be considered for absorption and insourcing then that aspect will be enforced through the agreement,” he said. Another former employee, Bongani Shikweni, said only 5% of the group from the 2011 contractors were employed and the rest of the 95% came from other provinces. “For example, in my area in Finetown, they only employed two people from us. We were 18 and in Alexandra they took four from 39. “This is unfair because we received SMSes with clock numbers but now they employed people who were not part of us in 2011,” he said. A protest leader and former employee Sagwani Chisimba said they would take the matter to President Cyril Ramaphosa should their plea not be heard. “There are various disputes lodged against the city (council) by the union (Samwu), and we are fully aware that the city (council) is sitting on a ticking time bomb. “At any given time something is going to collapse and the city (council) will have to take full responsibility,” Zungu added. City of Johannesburg spokesperson Nthatisi Modingoane declined to comment, insisting that a response from Pikitup covers the city council. The Sunday Independent