CAPE TOWN - Microsoft’s latest mobile offering, Kaizala Pro, is now commercially available in South Africa, other African countries and the Middle East.  What is Microsoft Kaizala? It is a mobile app that is dedicated to improving the way businesses communicate and collaborate. The app was created for large group communication, workflow management, reporting and analytics and is integrated with Office 365. The app is also optimised to work on any network including in rural areas that only have a 2G networks. Connect with your entire value chain The app can be used to communicate with and manage an unlimited number of users. This includes employees, front-line workers, customers, suppliers and citizens. Organisations can create flat, hierarchical or discoverable public groups in minutes, from contact lists, directories or ad hoc sharing. The app will let users make and share announcements such as photos, videos or documents; hosting polls or surveys; assigning tasks; providing training content; marking attendance; and tracking workforces using location tracking. Microsoft promises users that they can gather rich insights from data with built-in analytics. "Organisations can view results in real-time, organise large amounts of information with an aggregated view of user responses and get reports at each level of the organisation", said Microsoft said in a statement. Microsoft Kaizala Pro has premium features that include user and group management; system integration and automation using Microsoft Kaizala APIs; advanced reporting and analytics; the ability to publish custom actions and to create public groups, an organisational profile and directory, and support. Additionally, workers without an email address can use this app as it only requires a mobile number to sign a user up. All Kaizala data is stored in Microsoft Azure datacentres, which adhere to industry standard security and compliance certifications. Oray Erkus, Collaboration Product Marketing Manager, Microsoft East Africa spoke about the progress Kenyan-based solar energy company, M-KOPA Solar made when using the app. According to Erkus,  M-KOPA now has more than half a million customers in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. " M-KOPA Solar couldn’t have achieved this growth without providing the underlying communication and payment technology that people can access easily by phone. M-KOPA uses the Microsoft Kaizala app to connect its sales team and provide essential resources to rural communities", said Erkus. "The company has grown from 5,000 customers in its first year to more than 600,000 as of January 2018—more than 120 times the original customer base. The app that helping fuel M-KOPA’s growth is Microsoft Kaizala", said Erkus. WATCH:   - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 