Cape Town - Alleged gang boss Jerome “Donkie” Booysen killed a man who shot at him and was arrested on Wednesday night. In what is said to be the sixth attempt on his life in just 15 months, Booysen was attacked at Soneike Mall on Wednesday afternoon, shortly after having lunch at Spur with his family. Booysen shot and killed one of his alleged attackers, while sustaining a gunshot wound to the arm. He was taken to a Kuils River hospital for treatment and a second shooter is still at large. According to a source close to the investigation, the deceased shooter had Hard Livings (HL) gang tattoos on his body, and the name ‘Roslyn’ tattooed across his chest. At the hospital, Booysen, his two children and some friends were all arrested for being in possession of firearms and ammunition. His lawyer, Advocate Bruce Hendricks, confirmed this on Thursday but says everyone was released from Kuils River SAPS the same night. “His daughter arrived at hospital to get her father’s personal belongings when police asked to search her,” Hendricks says. “She had her father’s man bag with her and police then found a magazine with ammunition in it. They handcuffed her and held her in a separate room in the hospital.” He confirms eight firearms were seized from the group. “The seizure of the firearms can be confirmed but the firearms are all legal and were handed back to the individuals,” says Hendricks. Hendricks says the deceased man shot at Booysen, who returned fire. “There were two shooters and the one shooter was shot. He died,” he says. “I can also confirm that no charges will be made against my client. He is out and I confirm they will not charge him with murder. “A statement surrounding the incident will be taken from him by police.” Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk said circumstances surrounding the incident are under investigation. “Police are investigating a case of murder. This office is unable to divulge finer aspects of the on-going investigation,” says Van Wyk. Daily Voice