CAPE TOWN - Google has announced that the final version of the newest Android update is now available for all Pixel phones.   The update is known as Android 9 or Android Pie uses artificial intelligence to allow users' smartphones to learn more about what they like. “From predicting your next task, to prioritising battery power for the apps you use most, Android 9 adapts to your life and the ways you like to use your phone,” said Google. Android 9 learns and adapts to usage patterns and comes with features like Adaptive Battery, which learns the apps you use most and prioritises battery for them. Another new feature is Adaptive Brightness, which learns “how you like to set the brightness in different settings, and does it for you”. Google further punted App Actions, which predicts what a user wants to do next based on their context. Other changes added to the new OS system are: 1. Home button Android 9 introduces a new navigation system and a single home button. Google said that it would b helpful as phones grow taller and it’s more difficult to get things done on your phone with one hand. The “wellbeing” of users is also taken into consideration in the new operating system, which includes a new Dashboard for usage control. This shows users how long they have spent on their device, and lets them set an App Timer to limit usage on certain apps. 2. Security Android 9 “enables industry-leading hardware security capabilities to allow protecting sensitive data like credit card information using a secure, dedicated chip”. “Android 9 also brings important privacy improvements, such as TLS by default and DNS over TLS to help protect all web communications and keep them private,” said Google. Availability Android 9 will be made available to users who own Pixel phones first. “Devices that participated in the Beta programme from Sony Mobile, Xiaomi, HMD Global, Oppo, Vivo, OnePlus, and Essential, as well as all qualifying Android One devices, will receive this update by the end of this fall,” said Google. “We’re also working with a number of other partners to launch or upgrade devices to Android 9 this year", said Google. Android 9 Pie vs Android 8 Oreo The Android 9 is seen as a smarter OS system compared to the Android 8 Oero as it predicts the features you’ll want or need depending on how you use your smartphone. The addition of well-being features will surely help users in accepting a healthy lifestyle. There are noticeable visual changes that makes it a much more immersive experience as compared to Android 8.0 Oreo. However, the major challenge is whether or not Google will make available for this OS sooner than later. The Android Oreo, which was launched last year, is yet to reach the masses across the globe. So, it should be interesting to see whether the newest Android version will face the same fate or if it will be made availability sooner.   On Twitter, Google also sent out a few tweets to showcase the new launch of the operating system.     It added that by using Android 9, your phone's navigating system will be easy as pie.       - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE