But try counting out 90 seconds. That’s a different story. I raise this because of a new anti-violence campaign in the UK. Police and various charities there are urging citizens to chill for 90 seconds before reacting in potentially volatile situations. The “Take 90” initiative is based on scientists’ claims that an emotion like anger will have passed by then. According to the neuro-boffins, anger is experienced when a certain switch in the brain is triggered. This anger is essentially an agitated group of cells in the grey matter, but they settle down after only 90 seconds. I must stress, of course, there’s a difference between this physical anger and a grudge. Some people not only nurse grudges, but suckle them with bile for decades after their wean-by dates and their very beings are forever consumed by seething rage and rancour, and that’s not nice. But back to Take 90. Tor Garnett, the police officer behind the campaign, told the Times of London that aggression, whether on nights out or on the internet, was negatively impacting on our lives and we needed to “modernise” how we dealt with anger. “Many people know to count to 10, but that doesn’t work and you still feel rage. This campaign is to update us all on the science: our brain is chemically hijacked and we need to wait to get back to our rational brain before reacting,” Garnett said. All quite commendable, but here at the Mahogany Ridge, we’re wondering whether the 90 seconds would have helped the likes of Penny Sparrow and Vicki Momberg. Both, you may recall, were “agitated” when they went, as it were, badly off-script: Sparrow was apparently enraged by the mess on a beach after New Year’s Eve revelry and Momberg was the victim of an alleged smash-and-grab incident. Anger is one thing, but stupidity is another. No amount of waiting will result in the evaporation of that particularly dulling fog. And so, to our latest outrage, the video posted by the Johannesburg grocer Adam Catzavelos, in which he expressed his delight at being on a beach in Greece with no k*****s in sight. The sheer thoughtlessness of the posting was as astounding as its brazen racism. This, in the viral age of Sparrow and Momberg? What on earth was Catzavelos thinking? Was he even thinking? Probably not. Retribution was swift. Within hours, Catzavelos was fired from the family business, the private school where his children are enrolled banned him from its premises and his wife was identified on Twitter as a director at Nike along with calls to boycott the sports gear manufacturer’s retail outlets. There was a public apology from Catzavelos, which was immediately dismissed on social media. The ordeal of shame and public humiliation must continue. Twitter hath decreed it thus. No waiting 90 seconds there, you could argue. No surprises, too, that the EFF filed a criminal complaint against Catzavelos on Wednesday. As the EFF’s Mandisa Mashego told reporters: “We’ve given (the police) everything, we’ve given them evidence. We’ve given them the guy’s address and we’ve even given them his ID number. There’s nothing for them to do, they must go and arrest.” More interestingly, Mashego then said the EFF would be pushing for the criminalisation of racism. Which was rich, considering whence, etc. A day later, for example, EFF leader Julius Malema told a Johannesburg press conference there was a plot to assassinate party members because of its stance on land expropriation without compensation. “They will kill us for that,” Malema said. “There’s a group of white right-wingers who are being trained by Jews in Pretoria to be snipers.” It’s mystifying why such vile anti-Semitism is tolerated, but we condemn the likes of Sparrow and Catzavelos with zealous self-righteousness. Better, I suppose, to be a black racist than a white one. But rather than do something silly, I played The Beatles again and I’m feeling a little better. * Andrew Donaldson's weekly A Famous Grouse column appears in Independent Media titles on Saturday. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.