Knysna - Four men, including 58-year-old Knysna councillor Velile Waxa, briefly appeared in the Knysna Magistrate’s Court on Thursday in connection with the murder of local ANC councillor Victor Molosi last month. The 50-year-old Molosi, who was the councillor representing the African National Congress (ANC)  for the coastal holiday town’s Ward 8 which includes areas Concordia and Joodsekamp, was killed by a gunman on the night of July 23. Molosi was leaving the Concordia High School where he had attended a school governing body meeting when a gunman approached him and fired several shots at him. One of the shots hit him in the head and he died on his way to a local hospital. Molosi was not only a local councillor, but also the ANC chief whip in Knysna as well as the party’s Southern Cape deputy secretary. Five men have since been arrested in connection with Molosi’s murder after a specialised police task team consisting of provincial and cluster detectives was formed to investigate the matter. The first suspect arrested was 39-year-old Knysna Taxi Forum secretary Mandla Tyololo. He has since been charged with conspiracy to murder. On Tuesday four more suspects were arrested, but the charges against one have since been dropped. Southern Cape police spokesman Captain Malcolm Pojie said the reason for his release was due to a lack of evidence. The other three, Waxa, 42-year-old Mawande Makhala, 37-year-old Vela Patrick Dumile have since been charged with murder and appeared in court with Tyololo on Thursday. The matter was postponed to August 23 for a formal bail application by Tyololo, Waxa and Dumile. Makhala abandoned his right to apply for bail. A ruling was made in court barring the media from taking or distributing photographs of the accused pending further investigation into the matter. Hundreds of Knysna residents had gathered outside the court demanding that the suspects not be released on bail. Some of the protestors included politicians, including ANC provincial executive committee member Lionel Adendorf. Adendorf said the murder of Molosi had left him “deeply hurt”. He addressed the crowd after proceedings echoing their demand that the accused be refused bail. Adendorf also urged residents not to do anything that could hamper the case. African News Agency (ANA)