Johannesburg - EFF leader Julius Malema has accused Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga of arrogance and “acting like he won an election”. Malema and the EFF in Tshwane believe Msimanga refuses to consult with other political parties and has prioritised white people’s issues instead of addressing service delivery issues in the capital city. The EFF in Tshwane has spoken strongly against Msimanga’s recommendations for the suspension of the city manager Dr. Moeketsi Mosola. The city manager was accused of flouting the city's supply chain management policy after the awarding of a tender to an engineering company called GladAfrica. The EFF now plans to introduce a motion of no confidence against Msimanga. “Our caucus in the City of Tshwane has written to us about its intentions to put a motion of no confidence in the Mayor of the capital city, Solly Msimanga. This is based on the fact that they see him as a non-consultative leader who has prioritised white people amidst great service delivery problems in poor black communities. “The EFF caucus has also expressed great concern over Msimanga’s move to suspend the City Manager,” said Malema during a media briefing on Thursday. Malema said Mosola was being punished because he exposed that Msimanga’s former chief of staff, Marietha Aucamp was hired even though she did not have the necessary qualifications for the job. “Our caucus has indicated that the City Manager is being punished because he is suspected to be the one that exposed the fact that Msimanga hired Marietha Aucamp who did not possess required qualifications for the job “The white-dominated DA caucus is blood-thirsty and wants to see the City Manager punished for exposing a  fellow white fake. This is because Marietha Aucamp is a blue-eyed child of the Tshwane DA who is supposed to be untouchable,” he said. Meanwhile, the ANC has called for the no-confidence motion in Msimanga be held in secret. The party, which previously governed the metro, also believes Msimanga is using Mosola as a scapegoat regarding the tender scandal. IOL