Johannesburg - Opposition political parties have lauded a New York Times exposé on deputy President David Mabuza, saying it confirms that he is not fit to hold the second most powerful position in government. The article about Mabuza has resurfaced questions about Mabuza’s fitness to hold office as allegations of corruption still cloud his reputation. Mabuza has been accused of siphoning funds from the Mpumalanga provincial government which resulted in poor service delivery at the province’s rural schools, the paper reported. It also accused him of using money to strengthen his power and grip in the ANC. Mabuza was the chairperson of the ANC in Mpumalanga until his election as ANC deputy president at the party's elective conference in December. He was also the premier until his elevation to the country’s second-in-command earlier this year after former president Jacob Zuma resigned as the State president. The ANC was not available to respond to questions about Mabuza’s reputation. Opposition parties have weighed in on the matter and said Mabuza was a bad pick for the ANC from the very beginning. DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi said the party has always viewed Mabuza as corrupt. “We have always been on the view that Mabuza is a corrupt leader who shouldn’t occupy any public office. His elevation to the deputy presidency of the ANC reaffirms that both he and the ANC are ethically tainted to lead our country to prosperity. This also reaffirms our belief that the ANC is incapable of change. It is the same party with the same compromised leaders,” said Malatsi. UDM secretary general Bongani Msomi said what was being uncovered about Mabuza was only scraping the surface and that there was likely more to be revealed. “We have been hearing things that Mabuza has done. The future of this country is very bleak because of the people that have been elected into leadership. Even the investors that we hoped we’d be attracted in SA, they will be reluctant to invest in the country because of people who are questionable that are in the Cabinet. “The president came up with this concept of a new dawn and we do not see this process succeeding because some people who are part of his cabinet, their history is not clean. So, the new dawn has no future. We are still expecting more to come,” he said. Politics Hub