Gill Packham lived a comfortable life with her husband Rob in their Constantia home. According to the couple's two daughters, their mother had a passion for gardening and belonged to a few gardening clubs and also enjoyed ballet and cycling. Apparently, she loved her Chardonnay. According to Gill's friends, the 57-year-old had a bubbly personality and was well known for her big smile and warm heart. Nobody could foresee that this well-liked mother and wife's life would be abruptly ended on a beautiful summer day. Gill, an administrator at the Springfield Convent School in Wynberg, was reported missing after she failed to arrive at work on February 22 this year. Her body was found in the boot of her burning BMW vehicle near the Diep River railway station. Gill's body was so badly burned that she had to be identified through forensic comparison. Her husband was arrested for her murder a short while later. The State contends that the Packhams were having marital problems and that Rob had sent his wife a text message saying “thinking of calling it a day”. According to the State, the Twizza general manager also contacted a colleague to provide him with an alibi for the day Gill was murdered. They also ocntend that her blood was found in his car and at the couple's home. While the full facts of the case have not yet come to light, Gill's family and friends have been left to pick up the pieces and rebuild their lives without her. Gill will never celebrate another Women's Month, another birthday or another Christmas with her daughters. She will never babysit her grandchildren. Gill will never get to see the dreams she had for her daughters or herself fulfilled. For Gill's sake and the sake of women everywhere, if you know somebody who has committed an act of violence against a woman Don't Look Away. If you know a young woman's life is in danger, Don't Look Away. If you are able to help prevent another tragedy, Don't Look Away. * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. IOL