CAPE TOWN - President Mbeki once suggested that one way of avoiding misinformation during election periods is to position election results boards outside polling stations to keep the citizens informed about election results. At the time he was assisting one of the African countries to resolve its tensions. This was a simple solution and an important one to avoid election violence. This solution could have assisted Zimbabwe to avoid the current violence associated with election violence. On Tuesday, the 01st August 2018 the MDC leader Nelson Chamisa announced that he was the winner of the 2018 election results. This information was not verified by the Zimbabwean Election Commission (ZEC). This announcement led to a violence that killed 3 people in the country. This was not the first time that inaccurate election information has led to violence during elections in the African continent. It is probably not the last time that inaccurate information leads to a disaster for elections. The election information challenge is a global problem. In the US, media reports claim that information was used to influence the outcomes of elections. The claim is that the Russians used Facebook (information platform) to influence the US citizens to vote in a particular way. To avoid challenges associated with elections there’s a need to solve the information problem. This means that there’s a need to improve how election information is communicated to the public. Information about elections cannot be left to candidates and other unofficial sources. The information about elections has to come from a credible non-bias source that can be trusted by the public. This information also needs to be transparent and be immediately accessible to the public to avoid doubts that tend to influence violence. Zimbabwe and other African countries need sophisticated and neutral information systems that can assist with capturing,managing and communication election data. Each polling station would need to be fitted with a system (not paper) that captures votes. The votes data would have to be communicated to citizens at the same polling station on a screen that everyone can see. This whole process will have to be live and transparent. To avoid manipulation of such systems neutral entities that have no interest in the affairs of the countries would have to be responsible for the management of such an information system. The system would have to become the only system that is allowed to inform the citizens about the outcome of those election based on transparent input. The manner in which election information is communicated would also have to be communicated on devices that people own such as mobile phones,tablets and other computers. This would ensure that everyone has received accurate information about the elections. The digital divide excuse should no longer be used as a scapegoat for not using advanced systems for managing election information from capturing and communicating it. Most people these days especially in the African continent have advanced mobile phones that can be used to communicate officially election results. Anyone who communicates information about elections would have to reference such an information system to avoid misinformation. It cannot be that information about elections comes from all sorts of sources. Data integrity with elections is key. In this regard even platforms such as Facebook and Twitter would have to engaged about allowing election communication to enabled on their platforms. Social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter would have to do something about preventing the communication about elections. If any information is communicated on these platforms it would have to come from only the institution that is mandated to managed elections information systems. Institutions such as the United Nations, African Union in case of the African continent, would have to play an active role in this regard to ensure the development of such an information system. They would also have to play an integral in setting governance rules of how such an information system ought to be managed and governed. The process of managing the elections can no longer be left to every jack and jill who uses information platforms to advance their own agenda. Allowing anyone to capture,manage and communicate elections information leads to disaster we’ve seen in the case of US elections. The US citizens know very well what happens when anyone is allowed to mess with elections information. According to media reports during the last elections Facebook and other social platforms became propaganda tools that were used to drive a particular agenda that influenced the outcomes of the elections. Cambridge Analytica, a data company, was used to manipulate data and information to influence election outcomes. As a result of this Facebook had to take serious action of  banning election advertising and other forms of communication about elections. In 2019, South Africa will be conducting its own elections. As the country prepares for elections it needs to learns from what happened in the US and Zimbabwe to avoid confict that is inspired by misinformation. Wesley Diphoko is the founder of Kaya Labs and Editor-In-Chief of the Data driven media platform - TheInfonomist. He also serves as the Chairman of the IEEE Open Data Initiative. You can get more similar nsights about the information economy via: www.theinfonomist.com The Infonomist 