Cape Town - Family members of late former police officer and author, Mark Minnie took to social media to express their grievances at the loss. Mark Minnie, co-author of the controversial book "The Lost Boys of Bird Island", was found dead on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth in what appears to be an apparent suicide. Eastern Cape police on Tuesday confirmed that detectives discovered a suicide note after the body of Minnie was discovered on a small holding in Theesecombe, Port Elizabeth. The book, which is about high-ranking former National Party officials allegedly being part of a paedophile ring involving cabinet ministers in the late 1980s, is a collaboration between Chris Steyn and Minnie. In a heartbreaking Facebook post, Minnie's step daughter Tamsin Amy said: "I’m honest not even sho where to actually begin, but today I was woken up to news from my mum Mandy Ann Kuhn, that my step dad of many years has passed away. I literally felt my heart crack and fall apart in my chest as I got off the phone with my family, knowing that I’m in China and I can’t be there to comfort my baby sister who has lost her father. To my brother Markus Mordiac, I’m so sorry that you and Brooklyn have to go through this pain, it’s not fair in the least. To Mark Minnie, you weren’t my real dad, but you loved me deeply, and you took me in as one of your own, for that I’ll be forever grateful. I love you, RIP.♥️" Tributes for Minnie and condolences to the family poured in. Over a week ago, Minnie's son Markus Modiac, took to social media to acknowledge his father's achievements. "When dad finished this book he sent me a copy. I got through the first 2 chapters and then stopped, Tears and a heavy heart, knowing my father was About to dive into something that could kill him. We have always had our different opinions and an opposite take on life. I never understood why he was so angry yet so protective of me whilst growing up. This storie really changed my perspective. I’m glad you had the courage to finally bring this out of the dark. My prayers go out to all the victims, and I hope justice will one day be served to the wrong doers! Love you dad, keep your head held high! You deserve it!" * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. IOL