He blamed the European Commission for a lack of flexibility in fraught talks for 16 months. Prime Minister Theresa May hopes to conclude a divorce deal and the broad outline of a future trade agreement by October, giving the UK and European parliaments until Britain’s scheduled departure in March to debate and vote on the package. “The intransigence of the commission is pushing us towards no deal,” Fox told the paper. “We have set out the basis in which a deal can ­happen, but if the EU decides that the theological obsession of the unelected is to take priority over the economic wellbeing of the ­people of Europe then it’s a bureaucrats’ Brexit - not a ­people’s Brexit,” and “there is only going to be one outcome.” The UK government has ratcheted up pressure on the EU in recent weeks, urging the bloc to loosen its red lines and come to an accommodation over Brexit. Part of the UK strategy involves giving greater visibility for no-deal planning. May has said Britain will publish some 70 technical notes to lay out domestic plans for coping with a scenario without an accord, while Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned last week ahead of visits to Paris and Vienna that “we potentially face the prospect of a no-deal by accident.” May’s office said in an emailed statement yesterday that the government is “confident” of securing a deal with the EU. “However it is the job of a responsible government to prepare for all scenarios,” it said. “The technical notices we will publish in August and September will set out our plans for a range of exit scenarios.” “It’s essential that ‘no deal’ looks credible to the EU,” Fox said. “If our message on ‘no deal’ is becoming more credible and resonating with those we are negotiating with in Europe, then our negotiating hand is getting stronger every day and we shouldn’t do anything to undermine that.” Hunt warned that leaving without an agreement would lead to lost jobs in Europe, while Fox yesterday said that EU leaders must decide whether they want to protect jobs, trade and profit, or “the purity of the EU’s ideology.”  Centrepiece May on Friday cut short her holiday in Italy for a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron. After she finally devised a plan for the post-Brexit economic partnership with the EU last month, Europe’s lead negotiator, Michel Barnier, pushed back against its centrepiece - a proposal for Britain to collect tariffs at EU rates at its borders in order to maintain a “frictionless” boundary with the bloc. That’s left May with little room to manoeuvre, because Brexiteers in her party already say the strategy offers too many concessions to the bloc. Former Brexit Minister David Jones used an article in the Sun yesterday to condemn May’s plan, enshrined in a so-called White Paper, as “Brexit in Name Only,” or Brino. The aim of the establishment is “to ensure we have such a soft Brexit that it will be as if we had never left,” Jones wrote. “The government’s own Brexit White Paper makes clear that that is the desired outcome.” Another detractor of May’s strategy, former International Development Secretary Priti Patel, wrote in the Sunday Telegraph that the plan fails “by any reasonable standard” to reflect the result of the 2016 EU referendum or to “provide for our future economic prosperity." - Bloomberg