CAPE TOWN - Huawei Consumer Business Group (CBG) received "The best smartphone of the year" award from the European Image and Sound Association (Eisa). This is the sixth consecutive year that Huawei has been recognised by the Eisa. Li Changzhu, Vice President of Handset Business for Huawei Consumer Business Group said: "For us the most important reward is creating products that let consumers enjoy and experience intelligent and photography through our devices. The Huawei P20 Pro provides a wealth of photography features to help capture and share the moments that mean the most to our users." Eisa selected the Huawei P20 Pro as the best smartphone of the year for being “the most advanced, innovative and technically superior smartphone ever,” as well as “the perfect companion for mobile users, and also a trendsetter in the mobile photography field.” Eisa noted that P20 Pro represents “a winning combination of great hardware, optics and craftsmanship. .tg {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg .tg-siak{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;vertical-align:top} .tg .tg-yw4l{vertical-align:top} Eisa is a group comprising of 55 of the world’s most respected consumer electronics magazines. Eisa members include expert media across the full spectrum of consumer electronics from 27 countries, and each member contributes to one or more of Eisa’s six expert groups namely photography, mobile devices, Hi-Fi, home theatre audio, home theatre display & video, and in-car electronics. Every year, Eisa members nominate a list of products that they consider the standout performers in each of these Expert Groups. Nominations are then presented at Eisa’s annual general meeting, where members conduct an in-depth deliberation before voting for the winner of each category. The award will be formally presented to Huawei during IFA at the Eisa Awards Ceremony on the 31st of August in Berlin. WATCH:   - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE