JOHANNESBURG - South Africa long ago started to move down the slippery slope of losing its security and sovereignty. The most recent has been where corruption and state capture by individuals and foreign nationals became the order of the day. Hopefully, repair processes have started but it will take years before the damage of the Zupta years is fully repaired.  However, there is a slow but insidious and unrelenting loss of security and sovereignty taking place. One would think this process was taking place behind closed doors but amazingly it is taking place virtually in the open and with full or tacit approval of many citizens. The damage being caused is generational and will effectively confine many citizens of South Africa to poverty for a generation if it is allowed to continue.  The process taking place will lead to widespread energy poverty.  This will inevitably result in slow unsustainable and unstable economic growth less than 2.7 percent per annum and with it will come high unemployment above 35 percent compared to current levels of 27 percent.  These events create a landscape with all the potential for a Venezuelan style socioeconomic political revolution.  Economic insecurity leads rapidly to a loss of economic sovereignty. The first phase has already occurred where capture, mismanagement and political interference of the affairs and contracts of Eskom has resulted in delayed construction projects, particularly Medupi and Kusile, and many other areas of mismanagement, only now being highlighted.  This has resulted in load shedding and excessively high electricity pricing.  Essentially it has threatened the security of the country by weakening electricity supply and in the end opened the door to losing the country’s sovereignty to idealistic, financial and foreign interests. The second phase is well under way at present.  There are a host of idealistic, financial and foreign parties insidiously, often collusively, steadily destroying South Africa energy security and sovereignty.  One can actually break them down into categories:   In conclusion all the above adds up to the fact South Africa and its citizens, primarily made up of unsuspecting genuine believers in a cleaner society and a poor, are being manipulated by an educated class of domestic and foreign individuals and institutions.  These individuals and institutions have vested idealistic and financial interests.  In summary they are trying to lead South Africa down a renewable route which will result in South Africa losing its energy autonomy, security and ultimately its sovereignty.   South Africa indeed faces a dark future. Rob Jeffrey is an independent economic risk consultant.  He is the former MD of Econometrix and continues to consult for them. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. - BUSINESS REPORT