CAPE TOWN – South African wines are poised to make a good impression among the Peruvians because of their exceptional quality and unique taste. This is the view of a Stellenbosch businessman, Malcolm Green, who will be one of the Western Cape winemakers who will be travelling to the South American country over the weekend with the aim of expanding the market for the South African wines. The wine producers are part of a group of businesspeople from four provinces who will be departing for Lima on Saturday to participate in the trade and investment mission organised and funded by the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) through its Export Marketing and Investment Assistance scheme. The objective of the scheme is to develop export markets for South African products and services and to recruit new foreign direct investments into the country. According to the Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, the mission is part of the department’s efforts aimed at improving bilateral trade relations and increasing trade and investment between Peru and South Africa, as well as other countries in Latin America. Green is optimistic that the South African wines will stand out from the rest and capture the attention of many Peruvian wine importers and wine drinkers when they are introduced to them next week. The programme of the mission includes a business seminar, business-to-business meetings and site visits to various Lima-based companies that are interested in doing business with the South African companies. “As winemakers we are excited about the opportunity provided by the mission for us to expand the country’s export market for wines. Wine is one proudly South African product that is highly sought-after internationally because of its unique taste and quality. “Our wines are smoother, well-balanced and fruity due to the different location and soil from which the grapes are grown. As a result of these exceptional qualities and competitive price, 70% of the 980 million litres of wine produced in South Africa annually are exported to various parts of the world due to their popularity,” said Green. He adds that the mission to Peru could not have come at a more opportune time as the country’s R38 billion industry is on the crest of the wave due to the strong international demand for South African wines that is stimulated by the rand-dollar exchange favourable to international importers of wine across the world. “This is the most perfect time to seek international markets for the South African wines. We are confident that the mission will be profitable as the wine industry in Peru is also very vibrant. The bulk of the country’s wines is imported from Chile and France, Nevertheless, we have no doubt that the mission will be productive and profitable for the South African wine exporters as the Peruvians will realise that we are offering them something unique and irresistible after tasting our wines,” adds Green. Green’s company, La Ric Mal, already exports red and white wines to more than ten countries including China, Mauritius, Nigeria, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Tanzania and Angola. - BUSINESS REPORT