Johannesburg - Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has told the state capture commission of inquiry how Duduzane Zuma introduced her to controversial businessman Fana Hlongwane and Rajesh Gupta. She was giving testimony at the state capture inquiry on Monday. The commission of inquiry into state capture is investigating allegations of corruption largely centred around the infamous Gupta family and former president Jacob Zuma.     It has been alleged that the Gupta family used its relationship with Zuma to score business deals with state-owned enterprises. Billions were allegedly paid out to the family in suspicious business deals involving government officials. Mentor, who was the chairperson of the portfolio committee of public enterprises in 2010, explained how her state visit to China in 2010 was paid for by the state-owned company Transnet and her visit to the country was part of the DTI delegation. She detailed how Duduzane approached her in her cubicle and complimented her work and proceeded to introduce her to the men he was with. One of these men she is Fana Hlongwane and the other Rajesh Gupta. "A certain young man who was not alone knocked at my cubicle and introduced himself as Duduzane. I recognized him from pictures in the media. I recall the other person he introduced he said I was doing a sterling job in Parliament. He said can I introduce you to my chairman and that person was Fana Hlongwane," said Mentor. Mentor said all three Gupta brothers joined the government on the trip and seemed to be in charge of the state dinner that was taking place at the start of the state visit to China. She said the Minister of Trade and Industry Rob Davis often referred to the Gupta brothers for direction at the dinner. Mentor was called to testify on Monday based on her 2016 claim, which she posted on Facebook, that she was offered a job as the minister of public enterprises by one of the Gupta brothers at their compound in Saxonwold. She claimed former president Jacob Zuma was at the Gupta's Saxonwold compound as she was offered the job. She claimed that Zuma later walked in after she rejected the offer.    The inquiry continues. IOL