Are you the kind of person who doesn't think the gym can test your full potential? Or are you the kind of person who feels some playground equipment should be at least five times the size? Maybe you're the kind of person who watches an old episode of Wipeout and thinks 'Why not me'? Then you're in luck - the world's finest international obstacle course challenge, Tough Mudder is coming to the Western Cape and you're invited. The Discovery Tough Mudder is the first of its kind in Africa, but since 2010 the original Tough Mudder has grown into 130 competitive and non-competitive events every year that unite over 3 million people seeking a more engaging, communal form of active lifestyle from around the globe. While newbies can test their mettle in an 8km Tough Mudder Half with 11 thrilling obstacles, those in the mood to test their stamina a little more can sign up for the Tough Mudder Full: a 16-18km obstacle course featuring 20+ obstacles. These events are untimed and all that matters are your bragging rights and an ice-cold beer at the finish line. Discovery Vitality members get a R100 off their tickets as well as Vitality points.  Participants can enter as individuals, or take a day to relieve some office stress and enter as team.  Surprisingly, what makes this event truly special isn't just the crazy obstacles such as Funky Monkey, where monkey bars are just the start, as Mudders will have to take on a series of revolving wheels that only get more complicated as you get closer to the finish, or Everest 2.0 where you’ll need to sprint up a quarter-pipe obstacle and enlist the help of other Mudders to pull you over the beastly summit., it's the real sense, on the ground and in the stands, that the participants are facing these challenges together, testing not just personal potential but human potential.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. It's hardly uncommon for a Tough Mudder runner to help another out, up or over the line and that's the number one reason that, when it comes to obstacle course communities worldwide, they're right there at the top, being tougher together.  The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Campus in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudder.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a crackerjack of a day.  The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Campus in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudder.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a cracker-jack of a day.Are you the kind of person who doesn't think 'the gym' can test your full potential? Or are you the kind of person who feels some playground equipment should be at least five times the si ze? Maybe you're the kind of person who watches an old episode of Wipeout and thinks 'Why not me'? Then you're in luck- the world's finest international obstacle course challenge, Tough Mudder is coming to Cape Town and you're invited. The Discovery Tough Mudder is the first of its kind in Africa, but since 2010 the original Tough Mudder has grown into 130 competitive and non-competitive events every year th at unite over 3 million people seeking a more engaging, communal form of active lifestyle from around t he globe. While newbies can test their mettle in an 8km Tough Mudder Half with 11 thrilling o bstacles. Those in the mood to test their stamina a little more can sign up fo r the Tough Mudder Full: a 16-18km obstacle course featuring 20+ obstacles. These events are untimed and all that matters are your bragging rights and an ice-cold beer at the finish line. Discovery Vi tality members get a R100 off their tickets as well as Vitality points. Participants can enter as individuals, or take a day to relieve some office stress and enter as team . Surprisingly, what makes this event truly special isn't just the crazy obstacl es such as Funky Monkey, where monkey bars are just the start, as Mudders will have to take on a series of revol ving wheels that only get more complicated as you get closer to the finish, or Everest 2.0 where you ’ ll need to sprint up a quarter-pipe obstacle and enlist the help of other Mudders to pull you over the beastly summit. It's the real sense, on the ground and in the stands, that the participants are facin g these challenges together, testing not just personal potential but human potential. It's hardly uncommon for a Tough Mudder runner to help another out, up or over the line and that's the num ber one reason that, when it comes to obstacle course communities worldwide, they're right there at the top, being tougher together. The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Camp us in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudd er.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a cracker-jack of a day.Are you the kind of person who doesn't think 'the gym' can test your full potential? Or are you the kind of person who feels some playground equipment should be at least five times the si ze? Maybe you're the kind of person who watches an old episode of Wipeout and thinks 'Why not me'? Then you're in luck- the world's finest international obstacle course challenge, Tough Mudder is coming to Cape Town and you're invited. The Discovery Tough Mudder is the first of its kind in Africa, but since 2010 the original Tough Mudder has grown into 130 competitive and non-competitive events every year th at unite over 3 million people seeking a more engaging, communal form of active lifestyle from around t he globe. While newbies can test their mettle in an 8km Tough Mudder Half with 11 thrilling o bstacles. Those in the mood to test their stamina a little more can sign up fo r the Tough Mudder Full: a 16-18km obstacle course featuring 20+ obstacles. These events are untimed and all that matters are your bragging rights and an ice-cold beer at the finish line. Discovery Vi tality members get a R100 off their tickets as well as Vitality points. Participants can enter as individuals, or take a day to relieve some office stress and enter as team . Surprisingly, what makes this event truly special isn't just the crazy obstacl es such as Funky Monkey, where monkey bars are just the start, as Mudders will have to take on a series of revol ving wheels that only get more complicated as you get closer to the finish, or Everest 2.0 where you ’ ll need to sprint up a quarter-pipe obstacle and enlist the help of other Mudders to pull you over the beastly summit. It's the real sense, on the ground and in the stands, that the participants are facin g these challenges together, testing not just personal potential but human potential. It's hardly uncommon for a Tough Mudder runner to help another out, up or over the line and that's the num ber one reason that, when it comes to obstacle course communities worldwide, they're right there at the top, being tougher together. The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Camp us in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudd er.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a cracker-jack of a day.Are you the kind of person who doesn't think 'the gym' can test your full potential? Or are you the kind of person who feels some playground equipment should be at least five times the si ze? Maybe you're the kind of person who watches an old episode of Wipeout and thinks 'Why not me'? Then you're in luck- the world's finest international obstacle course challenge, Tough Mudder is coming to Cape Town and you're invited. The Discovery Tough Mudder is the first of its kind in Africa, but since 2010 the original Tough Mudder has grown into 130 competitive and non-competitive events every year th at unite over 3 million people seeking a more engaging, communal form of active lifestyle from around t he globe. While newbies can test their mettle in an 8km Tough Mudder Half with 11 thrilling o bstacles. Those in the mood to test their stamina a little more can sign up fo r the Tough Mudder Full: a 16-18km obstacle course featuring 20+ obstacles. These events are untimed and all that matters are your bragging rights and an ice-cold beer at the finish line. Discovery Vi tality members get a R100 off their tickets as well as Vitality points. Participants can enter as individuals, or take a day to relieve some office stress and enter as team . Surprisingly, what makes this event truly special isn't just the crazy obstacl es such as Funky Monkey, where monkey bars are just the start, as Mudders will have to take on a series of revol ving wheels that only get more complicated as you get closer to the finish, or Everest 2.0 where you ’ ll need to sprint up a quarter-pipe obstacle and enlist the help of other Mudders to pull you over the beastly summit. It's the real sense, on the ground and in the stands, that the participants are facin g these challenges together, testing not just personal potential but human potential. It's hardly uncommon for a Tough Mudder runner to help another out, up or over the line and that's the num ber one reason that, when it comes to obstacle course communities worldwide, they're right there at the top, being tougher together. The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Camp us in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudd er.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a cracker-jack of a day.Are you the kind of person who doesn't think 'the gym' can test your full potential? Or are you the kind of person who feels some playground equipment should be at least five times the si ze? Maybe you're the kind of person who watches an old episode of Wipeout and thinks 'Why not me'? Then you're in luck- the world's finest international obstacle course challenge, Tough Mudder is coming to Cape Town and you're invited. The Discovery Tough Mudder is the first of its kind in Africa, but since 2010 the original Tough Mudder has grown into 130 competitive and non-competitive events every year th at unite over 3 million people seeking a more engaging, communal form of active lifestyle from around t he globe. While newbies can test their mettle in an 8km Tough Mudder Half with 11 thrilling o bstacles. Those in the mood to test their stamina a little more can sign up fo r the Tough Mudder Full: a 16-18km obstacle course featuring 20+ obstacles. These events are untimed and all that matters are your bragging rights and an ice-cold beer at the finish line. Discovery Vi tality members get a R100 off their tickets as well as Vitality points. Participants can enter as individuals, or take a day to relieve some office stress and enter as team . Surprisingly, what makes this event truly special isn't just the crazy obstacl es such as Funky Monkey, where monkey bars are just the start, as Mudders will have to take on a series of revol ving wheels that only get more complicated as you get closer to the finish, or Everest 2.0 where you ’ ll need to sprint up a quarter-pipe obstacle and enlist the help of other Mudders to pull you over the beastly summit. It's the real sense, on the ground and in the stands, that the participants are facin g these challenges together, testing not just personal potential but human potential. It's hardly uncommon for a Tough Mudder runner to help another out, up or over the line and that's the num ber one reason that, when it comes to obstacle course communities worldwide, they're right there at the top, being tougher together. The inaugural Discovery Tough Mudder will take place at the Houwteq Camp us in Elgin, Western Cape on Saturday, 15 September. Be sure to book your place on www.toughmudd er.co.za or make a plan to be there and get stuck into the vibe. It's going to be a cracker-jack of a day.