CAPE TOWN – Siemens on Thursday launched the AfroDigital Fabric project, which weaves massive amounts of data from the cities of Nairobi, Johannesburg and Lagos into different fabrics and outfits to showcase the value of data in building smart cities in Africa. One fabric illustrates data gathered from the largest railway station in Africa. The piece of fabric details intricate data from Johannesburg Park Station, its 1 700 coaches, dilapidated railway infrastructure, long queues, overcrowding and unreliable trains. One insight gathered from the data illustrated on the fabric suggests that one way of mitigating future traffic congestion would be to conduct a complete overhaul of the railway network, and either refurbish existing trains or purchase new ones. The fabric also depicts interesting data on the city’s water supply. According the data collected by Siemens and illustrated on the Fabric the Johannesburg Water supplies 1 515 megalitres of potable drinking water per day, despite  consumption being 1 610 megalitres of water a day. Water Data collected by Siemens last year and illustrated on the Fabric reveals that the response time to water pipes was 88.51 pecent against the standard of 95 percent. It also reveals that Johannesburg Water had a 48 hour turnaround time for water bursts, and pipe ruptures that were linked to aging pipe infrastructure. Keshin Govender who heads up Siemens communication in South Africa ,commenting about the value of this data and the fact that its illustrated via the Fabric, said: “This is how we thought to express the aspect of digitalization. As urbanization rapidly increases, cities need to start preparing for the effects it will have on infrastructure, energy, water and transportation systems.” Others Fabrics illustrates data from the Gilloly’s Interchange, the southern hemisphere’s busiest interchange. Another Fabric illustrates data from Sandton, Johannesburg, which is regarded as the economic and commercial hub of Gauteng. The Fabrics were designed by local fashion designers such as Zizi Cardow who founded her haute couture label in 2000 and kickstarted a revolution for African fabrics with a view of globalization. Cardow’s garments have featured at renowned fashion shows like Couture Fashion Week in New York, Cape Town Fashion Week and shows in Dubai and Paris. The Siemens AfroDitial Fabric project marks her entry into the world of data. - BUSINESS REPORT