CAPE TOWN - Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note 9 at a special event in New York and Business Report attended their local launch of the event in Johannesburg. The company said the Galaxy Note 9 was aimed at a new generation of users and creators. The device has featured a 6.4-inch display and a 4,000mAh battery, the largest battery found in any Samsung device. “The device also features generous built-in storage options – either 128GB or 512GB – that allow users to put the days of deleting photos, videos, and apps to make room for more behind them,” said Samsung. Note 9 starts at a minimum of 128 gigabytes of storage and 512 GB version offered as well. Users will be able to add a 512 memory card and have 1 terabyte of storage on their phone. The updated S-Pen: According to Samsung, the new S-Pen acts as a wireless remote. It can be used to take a photo, Play/Pause YouTube videos, go through slides in PowerPoint. The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is available in 4 colors: Gold, Blue, Black and Purple Samsung will be launching a Galaxy watch. The watch features a high res AMOLED display with military-grade durability.      It is also water resistant with a battery life that will last 7 days and comes in 2 sizes. Samsung Galaxy Note 9 camera specs has a dual 12MP Camera and 8MP Front Camera. Samsung South Africa confirmed that the Galaxy Note 9 will be available in South Africa from 24 August 2018 in three colours – Midnight Black, Metallic Copper, and Ocean Blue. The Lavender Purple variant will launch soon after. Initially, only the 128GB model of the Galaxy Note 9 will be available locally, it added. Samsung also focused on multiple partnerships to increase the capabilities of its new devices. For example, It formed a partnership with Spotify to introduce a music ecosystem which will allow Spotify music to play on multiple Samsung devices.      Samsung also formed a partnership with Epic Games. Tim Sweeny the founder of epic games announced that Fornite, the biggest online game will be available for Samsung devices. This will make it the first Android device to have access to the game. Local availability The 512GB version of the Note 9 will be available soon thereafter, priced at R23,999. This model will be priced at a recommended retail price of R18,999. Various South African mobile operators offering the smartphone will also have contracts from R799 pm. The Note 9 vs the Note 8: Samsung made this infographic available to let users know that these are the differences between the Galaxy Note 8 and Note 9.  - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE