The chairperson of the Eskom inquiry in Parliament, Zukiswa Rantho, yesterday confirmed it would finalise the report in the next few weeks and table its recommendations to the House by the end of the month. The inquiry began late last year when several Eskom executives and former board members were implicated in wrongdoing involving the Guptas. Former board chairperson Zola Tsotsi’s testimony alleged that former SAA board chairperson Dudu Myeni had invited him to former president Jacob Zuma’s official residence in Durban to discuss the axing of three executives. Tsotsi said Zuma had instructed him to fire former chief executive Tshediso Matona, former chief financial officer Tsholofelo Molefe and another executive. Rantho said the committee researchers and legal advisers of Parliament were finalising a report that would be tabled in the next two weeks. “We have scheduled it to be presented to the committee on August 15. “After we have done that we have to send it to the people who are implicated so that they can respond to it,” said Rantho. She said the implicated parties would have 14 days to respond to the report and the allegations against them. During the hearings a few months ago former executives Brian Molefe, Matshela Koko, Anoj Singh and other board members were implicated in allegations of corruption. They denied any wrongdoing when they appeared before the committee. Rantho said they would table the report soon after that in the National Assembly for approval. She said if they couldn’t meet the end of August target to table the report in the House they would push for September. The tabling of the report in Parliament comes after the portfolio committee on public enterprises tabled another scathing report into Eskom. In the report the committee warned against corruption and called for stern action. It also spoke strongly against the R1billion given to McKinsey. Eskom advanced another R500million to Gupta-linked Trillian. McKinsey said it would pay Eskom back the R1bn. This followed a visit by MPs to the offices of Eskom in Joburg, where they met with all the stakeholders. In its recommendations the committee said Eskom should “review all contracts and procurement processes”. Eskom told Parliament it was reviewing more than 2000 contracts worth hundreds of millions of rands. In its observations the committee said it welcomed the officials who were axed for alleged wrongdoing. “The committee welcomed the swift action by the board and interim executives in getting rid of those who had been implicated in wrongdoing and encouraged the board to continue with the good work of cleaning governance and taking action against corruption,” stated the report. Weekend Argus