CAPE TOWN - Epic Games launched its popular game Fortnite on Android devices last week. When it launched, it was only made exclusive to Samsung-made phones for a few days. However, the exclusivity period is over and beta invite codes are going out to select users of non-Samsung phones. Epic is using its own website and a Fortnite Installer programme to distribute the game to all compatible Android devices. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to download Fortnite on Android: 1. Device compatibility If you have a compatible Samsung device such as the Galaxy S7 / S7 Edge, S8 / S8 Plus, S9 / S9 Plus Note 8, Note 9 as well as the Tab S3 and S4 tablets, you can download it through your Samsung app store. For those with non-Samsung devices, Epic has a full list on its website. On the list devices such as the Pixel, Pixel XL, and their successors, along with a suite of midrange to high-end Asus, Huawei, LG, OnePlus, and Xiaomi devices are listed. 2. Forget the Google Play Store Epic said that it’s only distributing Fortnite on Android through its own website. So do not go to the Google Play Store or any other third-party web source. 3.  Sign up on the waiting list If you don’t have a Samsung device, you will have to sign up for Epic’s beta through its website. Make sure you log in with your existing Epic account. That way, you can get Battle Pass progression across platforms and keep your skins, emotes etc. Once you sign up, you will have to wait for your invite. Epic said that it will be  “inviting players in waves” and that “you’ll be notified via email once you are invited.” 4.  Get the installer and game When downloading the game, the first thing to get is the  Fortnite Installer, which is the official APK file that then installs the game. In order to do this, you may need to turn off special permissions in your Android settings that allow you to download third-party applications. Once it’s completed, you should be able to log in into your account and start playing. Epic is advising users to keep the Fortnite Installer program, as it’ll be used for updating the game with new features and patches as time goes on. WATCH:    - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE