Johannesburg - South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) power struggle between its national executive committee (NEC) and its KwaZulu-Natal structure following removal of a senior national official and provincial office bearers who are both aligned to former president Jacob Zuma. The provincial officials who are in trouble with the NEC are provincial secretary Richard Mkhungo and treasurer Roy Moodley, a controversial businessman. Both Mkhungo and Moodley were linked to Zuma ahead of late last year’s ANC elective conference. Mkhungo and Moodley are in a battle with Sanco general secretary Skhumbuzo Mpanza and its president Richard Mdakane. During a press briefing on Monday in Durban, Mkhungo made it clear that he and Moodley would never relinquish their positions without a fight. “I’m not going to vacate the office as I know my constitutional rights. The only structure that can suspend me is the PEC (provincial executive committee),” said Mkhungo. He said Moodley was being attacked because he had questioned financial irregularities at the national office. “Our treasurer-general is ready to table in our next NEC meeting. But there are outstanding issues where he needs information from the general-secretary. “We have finances that we sourced from funding through gala dinners, which come through our operational accounts. We have skills development funds from the government. Both funds have been used, and he (Moodley) wants to know from the SG how the money was used,” said Mkhungo. According to a letter written in April, Mphanza told Moodley that “after lengthy deliberations, the National Working Committee resolved to accept your resignation as per your undertaking at the National Office Bearers meeting”. However, Mkhungo said Moodley never promised to submit resignation. “We have noticed that both our national treasurer and provincial secretary have been striving to root out the disgusting rot of corruption run by the selected national office bearers. “Our conclusion is that the attempt to force Cde Roy Moodley to resign and suspension of Cde Richard Mkhungo are done as an attempt to silence the voice that speaks against the rot of massive corruption,” said a statement that was given to the media during the press briefing. * Receive IOL's top stories via WhatsApp by sending your name to 0745573535. Political Bureau