Rome - The official death toll from the collapse of a motorway bridge in the Italian city of Genoa was raised Sunday to 43, after the overnight recovery of the bodies of the last three missing persons. The latest names added to the list of the dead were of a family of three - an Italian-Jamaican couple and their nine-year-old daughter. Their car was found badly crushed among the rubble in the night between Friday and Saturday. The Morandi bridge, a reinforced concrete structure that connected Genoa's eastern and western sides, gave way on Tuesday during a thunderstorm, sending more than 30 cars and trucks crashing to the ground from a height of 45 metres. The Italian national fire department wrote on Twitter that they would continue inspecting the area onto where the bridge fell - a dry river bed, railway tracks and warehouses - "to rule out the possible presence of persons not reported as missing." According to an updated death toll released by a Genoa branch of the Interior Ministry, four people from France, three from Chile, two from Albania, two from Romania, two from Jamaica and one each from Colombia and Peru were among the dead. Nine people are still in hospital, it added. The Italian government is blaming private motorway operator Autostrade per l'Italia for the disaster, while the company, whose leading shareholder is the fashion label family Benetton, denies any negligence. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte started Friday legal proceedings to revoke Autostrade's motorway licence. A day later, the company announced aid for the families of the victims and pledged to build a new bridge, at its expense, in eight months. Saturday was also a national day of mourning, in which state funerals were held in Genoa for only 18 of the victims. Some of the families of the dead preferred to hold private ceremonies citing a desire for privacy or anger with authorities. Genoa Prosecutor Francesco Cozzi, who is leading criminal investigations into the disaster, told Sunday's Corriere della Sera newspaper that by privatizing motorways, the Italian state had "abdicated" the role of guaranteeing road safety. * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. dpa