London - A businessman cleared of paying for his wife to be murdered on their South African honeymoon has found new love with a man. Shrien Dewani’s bride Anni was shot and killed when their taxi was hijacked in Cape Town in 2010. He admitted he was bisexual on the first day of his murder trial four years ago, revealing a secret life with male prostitutes. The 38-year-old is now said to be in a long-term relationship with Brazilian-born model Gledison Lopez Martins. In one photograph of the pair, Mr Dewani is snuggling up to his lover on a trip to India, where he had married his wife before their ill-fated honeymoon. However, his murdered bride’s family remain furious that he hid his sexuality and say the 2010 marriage would never have happened – and Anni would still be alive – if she had known. They claim Mr Dewani has also failed to answer many questions about his 28-year-old bride’s final hours. The one-time Bristol millionaire care home owner has always denied allegations he arranged the killing, saying the three men eventually jailed for murder mounted a robbery-gone-wrong and falsely implicated him to save their own skins. He only escaped the fatal taxi trip alive by fortune, he claimed. Now he looks happy to be with Mr Lopez Martins, a Spanish citizen, and the pair are understood to have been together 18 months.They have been on holiday to Mumbai – where the Dewanis married – and the Mediterranean party island of Ibiza. And while Anni’s relatives suspect Mr Dewani feared telling his own parents he was bisexual, an online image shows him enjoying a meal with his boyfriend’s parents. In the approach to Mr Dewani’s trial it had been revealed he had paid a London male prostitute known as the German Master for sexual encounters. The sex worker – Leopold Leisser – was found hanged in his Birmingham home two years ago. Speaking to MailOnline about the images of Mr Dewani with his lover, Anni’s uncle Ashok – brother of her grieving father Vinod Hindocha – said: "If he’s been to Ibiza I hope he enjoyed the beaches. "My family and I will never be able to in the same way because Anni loved the beach and every time we have tried to go we have left in tears. Shrien still hasn’t made time to sit down and talk with us. My brother Vinod deserves to hear from his son-in-law and about how he’s been able to move on. "We have not moved on or had a word from him. We accept he did not murder Anni, but he lied to us and had a very secret gay life. He owes us an apology for his lies. We only came to know about him sleeping with men at his trial. But if Shrien had told us the truth about his sexuality before the marriage, Anni would never have married him or gone to South Africa where she was shot dead." Mr Dewani did not give evidence at his trial. For years he avoided a court hearing because of a mental illness diagnosis. He has largely avoided public comment about his wife’s murder, but did send a letter to the coroner at her 2016 inquest. He wrote how the men jailed for Anni’s murder were "proven liars" whose evidence "led to a witch hunt against me and the resulting failure to pursue the truth of what happened that night". Daily Mail