Salisbury, England - A former Russian
double agent convicted of treason in Moscow was critically ill
in a British hospital on Tuesday after exposure to an unknown
substance, with police saying it had to be "alive to the fact of
state threats". In its first response, the Kremlin said it was ready to
cooperate if Britain asked for help in its investigation of the
"tragic situation". Sergei Skripal, once a colonel in Russia's GRU military
intelligence service, was given refuge in Britain after he was
exchanged in 2010 for Russian spies caught in the West as part
of a Cold War-style spy swap on the tarmac of Vienna airport. But the 66-year-old former spy and a 33-year-old woman who
was known to him were found unconscious on a bench in a shopping
centre on Sunday in the English city of Salisbury after exposure
to what police said was an unknown substance. Both were critically ill in intensive care. While the British authorities said there was no known risk
to the public, police sealed off the area where the former spy
was found and a pizza restaurant called Zizzi in the centre of
Salisbury. Some investigators wore yellow chemical suits. British police did not release the names of those who were
being treated but two sources close to the investigation told
Reuters that the critically ill man was Skripal. It was unclear
what the substance was, they said. "We're speaking to witnesses, we're taking forensic samples
at the scene, we're doing toxicology work and that will help us
to get to an answer," said Mark Rowley, Britain's top
counter-terrorism officer. "We have to remember: Russian exiles aren't immortal, they
do all die and there can be a tendency to conspiracy theories.
But likewise we have to be alive to the fact of state threats,"
Rowley told BBC radio before referring to the murder of
Alexander Litvinenko. A British inquiry said President Vladimir Putin probably
approved the 2006 murder of ex-KGB agent Litvinenko with
radioactive polonium-210 in London. The Kremlin has repeatedly
denied any involvement in the killing of Litvinenko. Litvinenko, 43, an outspoken critic of Putin who fled Russia
for Britain six years to the day before he was poisoned, died
after drinking green tea laced with the rare and very potent
radioactive isotope at London’s Millennium Hotel. It took some time for British doctors to discern the cause
of Litvinenko's illness.  RUSSIAN SPY The Kremlin said it was ready to cooperate if Britain asks
it for help investigating the incident with Skripal. "Nobody has approached us with such a request," Kremlin
spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters,
when asked if the British authorities had been in touch seeking
help. "Moscow is always open for cooperation." When asked to respond to British media speculation that
Russia had poisoned Skripal, Peskov said: "It didn't take them
long." Calling the incident "a tragic situation," Peskov said the
Kremlin did not have information about what had happened. Skripal was arrested in 2004 by Russia's Federal Security
Service (FSB) on suspicion of betraying dozens of Russian agents
to British intelligence. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison
in 2006 after a secret trial. Skripal, who was at the time shown wearing a track suit in a
cage in court during the sentencing, had admitted betraying
agents to MI6 in return for money, some of it paid into a
Spanish bank account, Russian media said at the time. But he was pardoned in 2010 by then-President Dmitry
Medvedev as part of a swap to bring 10 Russian agents held in
the United States back to Moscow.  SPY SWAP The swap, one of the biggest since the Cold War ended in
1991, took place on the tarmac of Vienna airport where a Russian
and a U.S. jet parked side by side before the agents were
exchanged. One of the Russian spies exchanged for Skripal was Anna
Chapman. She was one of 10 who tried to blend in to American
society in an apparent bid to get close to power brokers and
learn secrets. They were arrested by the FBI in 2010. The returning Russian spies were greeted as heroes in
Moscow. Putin, himself a former KGB officer who served in what
was then East Germany, sang patriotic songs with them. Skripal, though, was cast as a traitor by Moscow. He is
thought to have done serious damage to Russian spy networks in
Britain and Europe. The GRU spy service, created in 1918 under revolutionary
leader Leon Trotsky, is controlled by the military general staff
and reports directly to the president. It has spies spread
across the world. Since finding refuge in Britain, Skripal lived quietly in
Salisbury and kept out of the spotlight until he was found
unconscious on Sunday. "On the bench there was a couple, an older guy and a
younger girl. She was sort of leant-in on him. It looked like
she'd passed out maybe. He was doing some strange hand
movements, looking up to the sky," witness Freya Church told the
BBC. "They looked so out of it that I thought even if I did step
in I wasn't sure how I could help, so I just left them. But it
looked like they'd been taking something quite strong." Another Russian, Alexander Perepilichny, who had been
helping a Swiss investigation into a Russian money-laundering
scheme, was found dead in 2012 in Britain. Police ruled out foul play despite suspicions he might have
been murdered with a rare poison. An inquest has yet to give a
definitive conclusion as to how he died. Reuters