CAPE TOWN - The City of Cape Town will commence with the construction of a R13.8 million minibus-taxi facility in the Masiphumelele township in the next two months. The facility will provide Masiphumelele minibus-taxi operators and commuters a safe and conducive environment. Currently, commuters congregate on a vacant plot of land, Erf 1728 which lacks basic facilities. “The new minibus-taxi facility will provide residents with a safe and dignified area for waiting and connecting with their fellow commuters”, said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Transport and Urban Development, Councillor Brett Herron. The facility earmarked for the area will feature an administration building where management and operators can conduct meetings, said Herron. Drop-off areas will also feature roofed coverings, walking lanes, ablution facilities, and a waiting area. “The facility will be equipped with a rooftop solar photo-voltaic (PV) panel system for electricity generation. We will sink a borehole for non-potable water uses at the facility, and we will also collect rainwater from the roof which will be stored in tanks”, added Herron. The City invited residents and operators from the township to attend an open day over the weekend where they could look at the proposed plans and layout of the facility. Notably, Herron said that the MiCiti service does not operate in the area as most commuters rely on minibus-taxis, therefore there will not be conflict between MiCiti buses and mini-bus taxis. READ ALSO: City of Cape Town spent R158 million on cycle and pedestrian lanes Herron said that the TDA has a number of public transport interchange (PTI) projects across Cape Town. These projects are in Somerset West, Makhaza, the Cape Town inner city, Lentegeur, Mandalay, Dunoon, Retreat. “These projects are at different phases. Some of the projects are in the conceptual planning phase, others have been advertised calling on the private sector to submit bids for construction, some are nearing completion, and for some of the projects we are busy with public engagement whereby we are engaging with local communities and operators for their comments about the proposed facilities”, said Herron. When asked how this project will contribute to job creation, Herron said that the “City’s contract with the supplier stipulates that 2% of the contract (excluding VAT) must be spent on temporary employment opportunities for local residents and services/products from local subcontractors”. Residents can benefit from this by listing their name on the subcouncil database. “Only those whose names are on the local subcouncil database will be considered for these opportunities”. Herron urged those who have not yet registered to visit the local subcouncil office to register or verify their details if they have registered before. ALSO READ: #EveryDropCounts: Clifton house for sale to fund Cape water projects TOP STORY: Zwane suspended Lonmin's operating licence for 3 days - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE