Johannesburg - Former head of the police crime intelligence service in the Free State Agnes Makhele’s legal representatives sought extension to seek IT expertise to view CCTV footage allegedly exposing her instructing her subordinate not to cooperate with Ipid investigations. Makhele appeared in court for allegedly defeating the ends of justice and contravening section 33 of the Ipid Act. She allegedly led a team that shielded the controversial former Acting Police Commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane from Ipid investigations. Makhele’s representatives were given time to view the footage that was to be used as evidence against her by National Prosecuting Authority last month but they had since failed to open the file. The Pretoria Magistrate Court thought it was best to give the accused until April 12 to seek the services of an IT expert to view the file. Ipid Spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the footage exposed Makhele secretly gesturing her subordinate, Colonel Collen Trollope, not to cooperate with an Ipid investigator. The officer later informed the Ipid investigating officer that Makhele had signalled her not to talk and remain silent on this matter, Dlamini revealed. Makhele was appointed to her position as head of the police crime intelligence service b Phahlane. She could soon be joined by other senior officials believed to have played a role in the sabotage and derailing of investigations. The Ipid stated in affidavits that Makhele and provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Baile Motswenyane had established an team in the North West to interfere with witnesses under false pretence that Phahlane’s life was in danger. Dlamini said as the the cases against Phahlane and Makhele continued to develop, South Africans would see the arrest of officers and civilians who played a part in the protection of Phahlane. Ipid sought to punish all those involved without favour or fear according to Dlamini. Phahlane was also expected to appear at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court, Pretoria, to face charges of corruption for allegedly taking kickbacks from police suppliers in reward for tenders.  james.mahlokwane@inl.co.za  The Star