Mexixo - The
founder of US-based self-help groups faces the possibility of
life in prison if convicted on charges of sex trafficking,
according to authorities who say he ran a secret society that
enslaved women and branded them with his initials. Keith Raniere, who was arrested in Mexico, appeared in court
in Fort Worth, Texas on Tuesday for a formal reading of charges
against him. US authorities say Raniere created a secret society of
women, forcing them to have sex and branding them with his
initials. He coerced them by threatening to release personal
information and taking their assets, according to a complaint
filed in New York federal court. "As alleged, Keith Raniere displayed a disgusting abuse of
power in his efforts to denigrate and manipulate women he
considered his sex slaves," William Sweeney, FBI assistant
director in charge, said in a statement. "He allegedly participated in horrifying acts of branding
and burning them," he said. "We are putting an end to this
torture today." Raniere, 57, has run a network of self-help groups based in
Albany, New York called Nxivm over the past 20 years, according
to the court complaint. A secret society within Nxivm consisted of female "slaves"
required to have sex with Raniere, according to women cited in
the complaint. The women, who numbered as many as 50, were branded with
symbols including Raniere's initials and forced to adhere to
strict diet to stay thin, said the complaint. Upon joining, they were required to provide information
about family and friends, nude photographs and rights to their
assets - so-called collateral used to threaten them if they
left, the complaint said. The women were taught that the society would empower and
strengthen them, the complaint said. Raniere, arrested on Sunday at a luxury villa near the
Mexican resort of Puerto Vallarta, was deported to Texas for his
court appearance. He faces charges of sex trafficking, sex trafficking
conspiracy and forced labor conspiracy. If convicted, Raniere faces the possibility of 15 years to
life in prison. He will be moved to New York for further hearings. Raniere has the backing of a wealthy heiress and access to
an $8 million bank account of a deceased lover, court documents
said. Authorities said he fled to Mexico after investigators began
interviewing witnesses in November. On its website, Nxivm calls itself "a community guided by
humanitarian principles that seek to empower people and answer
important questions about what it means to be human." In a letter on the site, Raniere said he was "deeply
saddened" and denied "abusing, coercing or harming" anyone. Thomson Reuters Foundation