INTERNATIONAL - American multinational technology giant, Apple hosted an education event in Chicago yesterday and revealed a few new devices, reports The Verge. The education event which was hosted at a High School in Chicago, revealed a few new Apple products, such as the launch of their new iPad which is specifically aimed at the education market. 1. iPad The new iPad features Touch ID support, an 8MP rear camera as well as an A10 Fusion chip from the Apple stable. The 9.7-inch iPad features pencil support and reportedly has a 40% faster CPU and 50% faster graphics performance. 2. Crayon Stylus Designed by Logitech, Apple released a crayon stylus.The crayon has a style tip like that of a pencil and is reportedly rechargeable. It does not use Bluetooth but connects to an iPad via a single frequency. 3. Schoolwork app Schoolwork app is a tool that teachers can use to assign digital tasks to students. This serves as an alternative to writing an email. Teachers can simply write notes and send PDF's via the schoolwork app. 4. iWork updates A new version of iWork which enables students and teachers to build books together. The books can be built by means of hand-drawn illustrations or written notes. 5. Everyone can create Everyone can create is a new initiative by Apple which positions the iPad as a tool that allows teachers and students to create interactive things and learn. The initiative will be rolled out soon via a curriculum. The curriculum will focus on music, video, photography, and drawing. READ ALSO: Rumour has it: Apple to launch foldable phone by 2020 Meanwhile, according to rumours, Apple is set to launch a foldable phone by 2020, reports Business Report. According to Wall Street firm Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Apple is working with Asian partners to make a whole new iPhone design. Senior analyst Wamsi Mohan wrote a note to clients today after meeting several Apple suppliers in Asia. “We expect the iPhones this fall to be largely unchanged for the OLED versions although size changes have proved to be a catalyst in the past,” Mohan wrote, “Our checks also suggest that Apple is working with suppliers on a foldable phone (that potentially could double up as a tablet) for launch in 2020", the note said. ALSO READ: Apple set to launch the next generation of iOS and macOS in June WATCH   TOP STORY: SA township woman's Rooibos tea bag purses all the rage in Paris - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE