Johannesburg - The EFF wants Terence Nombembe to recuse himself as the head of investigations for State Capture Inquiry for accepting funds from Trillian Capital. 
 
Party leader Julius Malema said the party was prepared to go to court to remove Nombembe as the head of investigations if he refuses to step down.
 
Nombembe is part of a group of critical appointments that were made by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to help him in the Sate Capture Inquiry. 
 
The party will write to Zondo requesting the removal of Nombembe. Read: Terence Nombembe to lead #StateCapture investigation #StateCapture inquiry to start after 'key appointments' are finalised Malema said on Thursday during a press briefing that Nombembe accepted money from Trillian Capital as the head of the South African Institution of Charted Accountants (SAICA).
 
He said the organisation received the donation in 2017, when the news of Trillian's connection to the controversial Gupta family was well-known. Trillian has been linked to the Gupta family and state capture allegations. The firm received millions from Eskom in alleged corrupt dealings. 
 
Malema said because of this, the party could not accept Nombembe to head up a corruption investigation when his organisation could easily receive money from dubious individuals. 
 
The EFF has also objected to the appointment of Paul Joseph Pretorius SC as the head of the legal team for the state capture inquiry. 
 
Malema said the party could not understand why the team of black people had to be led by "a white man". 
 
Another topic Malema tackled was the issue of the removal of Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip.
 
The EFF resolved to remove Trollip because the DA voted against the EFF's motion to expropriate land without compensation - the ANC and small parties supported the motion.
 
Malema said the party was not backing down on its decision to help remove Trollip. Malema said Trollip is being removed because he is a DA leader and sits on the structures that take decisions on land expropriation. 
 
"Anyone who opposes land expropriation without compensation is unwittingly perpetuating white privilege and saying with must remain with apartheid-era property," said Malema. Political Bureau