Salisbury, England - A Russian former
double agent and his daughter are still in a very serious
condition in hospital five days after they were struck down by a
nerve agent in a quiet English city, Britain's interior minister
said on Friday. Sergei Skripal, 66, who passed Russian secrets to Britain,
and his daughter Yulia, 33, have been in intensive care since
they were found slumped unconscious on a bench on Sunday
afternoon in the cathedral city of Salisbury. As counter-terrorism police continued to investigate the
source of the nerve agent, Home Secretary Amber Rudd visited the
city on Friday, including the area around the bench -- now
covered by a police forensics tent -- where Skripal was found. "It is still very serious for the two people who were the
subject of this outrageous attack," Rudd said. Police said Skripal and his daughter were deliberately
targeted with the rare toxin. They said experts had identified
the substance, which will help determine the source, but have
not yet disclosed to the public what it was. The attack has been likened in Britain to the assassination
of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, a critic of Russian
President Vladimir Putin, who died in London in 2006 after
drinking green tea laced with radioactive polonium-210. Britain has said it will respond appropriately if evidence
shows Russia was behind the poisoning. The Kremlin has denied
any involvement in the incident and says anti-Russian hysteria
is being whipped up by the British media. "In terms of further options, that will have to wait until
we're absolutely clear what the consequences could be, and what
the actual source of this nerve agent has been," Rudd said. Responding to previous comments by the interior minister,
Russia's embassy in London tweeted on Thursday: "Totally agree
with Secretary @AmberRuddHR: first evidence then conclusions on
Mr Skripal's case. Responsible political approach."  OFFICER SPEAKING A total of 21 people were taken to hospital following the
incident but only one other person, Detective Sergeant Nick
Bailey, who was the first police officer on the scene, is still
being treated. He remains in a serious condition although he is
now speaking, Rudd said. She declined to give any details about the police
investigation, saying detectives needed space to determine how
and where Skripal and his daughter were poisoned. Police have cordoned off Skripal's modest home in Salisbury,
about 80 miles (128 km) from London, where a number of forensic
tents were erected in the garden. Officers were guarding the
area where he and his daughter were found, along with a pizza
restaurant and a pub they had visited and the graves of
Skripal's wife and son. "We have to give the police all the space they need in order
to collect all the information, to secure and to be able to be
absolutely clear that there is no further risk," Rudd said. Skripal betrayed dozens of Russian agents to British
intelligence before his arrest in Moscow in 2004. He was
sentenced to 13 years in prison in 2006, and in 2010 was given
refuge in Britain after being exchanged for Russian spies. A British public inquiry said Litvinenko's murder 13 years
ago had probably been approved by Russian President Vladimir
Putin and carried out by two Russians, Dmitry Kovtun and Andrei
Lugovoy. Lugovoy is an ex-KGB bodyguard who later became a
member of the Russian parliament. Both denied responsibility and Russia has refused to
extradite them.  Reuters