Freetown - Polls opened in Sierra Leone's elections Wednesday,
with long queues of voters waiting to cast their ballots for a new
president as Ernest Bai Koroma bows out after a decade. People turned out early and the atmosphere was calm and peaceful in
the capital Freetown. It is the poverty-stricken West African nation's first general
election since it emerged from two major crises: a 2014-16 Ebola
outbreak that killed almost 4 000 people and deadly mudslides that
buried hundreds of people in 2017. A total of 16 candidates - including two women - are vying for the
presidency. But the poll is expected to be a tight race between
Samura Kamara, 67, the candidate of the ruling All People's Congress
(APC), and Julius Maada Bio, 53, from the main opposition Sierra
Leone People's Party (SLPP). One voter, Musa Kargbo, a recent university graduate who is currently
unemployed, told dpa the government should focus on the youth. "We struggle to get education and on completion we sit without a job.
This is not good, I'd like to see the government do something about
this," he said. Another voter and rights activist, Sympsohn Bakayrri Abou Yajoh, said
he hopes a new government will "apply robust strategies in the
education, health, and agriculture sectors, and engage in civic
education." Kamara is promising continuity and economic recovery, while Bio
pledges to end corruption and offer free education. Koroma, whose two five-year terms in office have been marred by
corruption allegations - auditors found that 30 per cent of Ebola
funds, or 5.7 million dollars disappeared due to fraud - is
constitutionally prohibited from running for a third term. A candidate needs to receive 55 per cent of the votes to win the
election in the first round. Analysts believe that a run-off between Kamara and Bio will be the
most likely outcome, to be held within two weeks after the result of
the first round is announced in the coming days. Sierra Leone's 3.18 million registered voters will also elect 132
parliamentarians between at nearly 15 000 polling stations across the
country. An additional 12 seats are reserved for local chiefs, elected in
separate polls. dpa