CAPE TOWN - MTN achieved the “Best in Test” ranking in the latest Independent benchmarking certification performed by P3 Communications. P3 is a unique measure for management and supervisory boards to compare their networks with others all over the globe. The tests spanned out  in a toal of 27 days between 17 January 2018 and 17 February 2018. MTN recieved a score  of 812 out of 1 000, which averaged 324 out of 400 in voice services and scored 488 out of 600 in data. The tests results proved that MTN’s network performed ahead of other mobile network providers in Test for South Africa on both voice and data services. Data testing specifically showed MTN has the best web browsing, has faster download and upload speeds and offers unparalleled video streaming on YouTube. This testing methodology is standardized, it evolves every year in order to reflect the increased customer expectations and availability of the latest mobile technologies. About 52% of the tests were conducted in cities, 16% in towns and 32% on the roads using the Samsung S8 device. “We are pleased with the latest ranking from P3, achieving technology excellence lies at the heart of providing our customers with best customer experience. This accolade vindicates the substantial investment we have made over the last three years in building high performing networks, and emboldens us to do more to raise the bar and offer our customers a distinct experience,” says Giovanni Chiarelli, Chief Technology and Information Officer at MTN SA The performance benchmark measurement campaign was carried out in 35 localities comprising of metropolitan cities, small cities and towns and rural localities as well as interleading roads. The localities were independently as well as randomly chosen by P3 communications and included Pretoria, Johannesburg, Villies, Warden, Heidelberg, Ladysmith, Escort, Howick, Pietermaritzburg and Durban on the eastern parts of the country. Towns and rural outskirts in Umzinto, Port Shepstone, Mthatha, Idutywa, Butterworth, King Williams Town, East London, Mdantsane, Grahamstown, Port Elizabeth, Jeffrey’s Bay, Humansdorp, Knysna, George, Mossel Bay, Riversdale, Swellendam, Grabow and Cape Town were also covered during the test along the south and eastern coastline of the country. Heading north, the measurement tests also tested network performance in Paarl, Worcester, Beaufort West, Bloemfontein and Kroonstad. From a Road perspective tests were predominantly made up of the interleading routes of the N3, N2 and N1 between key metros. Prior to performing the benchmark, all mobile operators were informed on the certification window to create visibility and transparency of the ‘best in test’. This P3 accolade follows the findings of the MyBroadband Q4 2017 Mobile Network Quality Report, which found that MTN has the best network in South Africa. MTN’s network in the MyBroadband tests achieved the highest average download speed at 22.2 megabits per second (Mbps). “We shall continue putting our best foot forward in ensuring that our customers are experience the best when they interact with our network, concludes Chiarelli. READ ALSO: MTN spends R4.6bn to tap growth from data READ ALSO: MTN CEO to be grilled over illegal infrastructure roll-out in Durban TOP STORY: These are South Africa's cheapest medical aid schemes - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE