The two commissions in South Africa - Zondo and Nugent - are really there to drain the swamp. More and more South Africans have come to realise that Jacob Zuma operated in many ways like (former Venezuela president Hugo) Chavez - out of self-interest and for self-preservation. He had both a cabinet and a cabal. Some of his cronies were in both, but as the cabal widened, it got easier and easier for them to loot and plunder public resources. The Guptas, for example, were never in the cabinet, they were ringleaders in the cabal. They advised the president and got their hands on the levers of decision-making. This kind of “malfeasance”, as Pravin Gordhan prefers to call it, has come to be known as state capture. We are only beginning to see the damage to the economy. No one knows how much of the loot can be recovered or, if not, how much “scarring” there will be. South African history could be seriously disfigured if they cannot chase down a lot of the losses. (President Cyril) Ramaphosa’s current initiative to raise R100billion in investment is a decoy - he is only filling the hole dug by his predecessor. With debt. So when you are robbed on the street, you go and borrow money from a money-lender. Does that really put you ahead? In the US, 1% of the population owns 52% of the wealth. That kind of concentration does not reflect the egalitarianism that was fundamental to its Declaration of Independence and its constitution. It exists on both sides of the partisan divide. Republicans and Democrats are playing this same game of self-interest and self-preservation. Enter Donald Trump, promising to “drain the swamp”. He could well have spoken of state capture. John McCain’s recent funeral was another excellent manifestation of how the “Elite Establishment” in Washington conjoins with the military-industrial complex. Sooner or later, the Establishment will “get” Trump. That is inevitable. But they are more likely to “get” him by manipulation of the justice system than through elections. One of the land reform movements brewing in South Africa is Abahlali baseMjondolo. At its recent general assembly, its members (almost all black) supported a resolution to cancel the membership of anyone promoting the ANC, and I quote: “Not long ago a decision was taken that any member of our movement seen wearing an ANC T-shirt must have their membership withdrawn. This decision came from the members and was popular. This does not mean our movement is planning to work with any other political party. We have not met any other party and have not had any discussion on our position on the 2019 election. “It just means that our members take the view that we cannot be complicit with a corrupt and, in Durban, gangsterised and ethnicised organisation, that is oppressing us, attacking us in our settlements and assassinating our leaders.” This is why I ask, whose swamp are we draining? Many people prefer Ramaphosa’s conciliatory and reassuring language to the militant thought-bursts of Julius Malema. But if we are consistent here, we have to second the emotion of Abahlali baseMjondolo. To keep land reform under the rule of law, which is what Ramaphosa is campaigning on (thus trying to mitigate the threat to ANC support posed by the EFF), what comes across to the poor and landless is oppression. That, unfortunately, is the “look and feel” of the Red Ants - the private security company specialising in clearing “illegal invaders” from properties. As it happens, I agree with Cope and AfriForum that the land was not “stolen”. You cannot apply 21st-century values and protocols to what happened two or three centuries ago. For example, the Huguenots were the French Protestants, adherents to the movement of Reformer John Calvin, who fled as refugees to Holland. There they were recruited as settlers for the Cape Colony. Thus there is a strand of French words in Afrikaans, because it merged with Dutch and Portuguese in the creole that later became a formal language. But that was close to 400 years ago, long before the rise of nationalism in Europe prompted by the Protestant Reformation. Another century passed before philosophers like Locke and Hobbes started thinking about something called Humanism. This influenced people like Thomas Jefferson who drafted the charters of the American Revolution. Much later came the Industrial Revolution and responses to its exploitation of the poor like Marxism. The point is that we live in the present. Just as the revolutionaries did in past centuries. The atrocities that were committed against both the Ba Boroa and the Bantus cannot be disputed, or forgotten. But nor should they be the “excuse” for policy correction in the here and now. Land reform is an imperative today because of the Gini Coefficient, the inequality, the immoral concentration of wealth. I disagree that this is a colour or racial issue - it is economic immorality. It is simply un-democratic. Our founding documents include not just the Constitution but also the Freedom Charter; just as the US has both a constitution and a Declaration of Independence. You have to listen to them both. Part of draining the swamp in South Africa is to clear away the “fake news” that the land was ever stolen or that only one race needs to be targeted in land reform. It was (Kwame) Nkrumah who said Africa does not need to move to the Left or to the Right, but to move Forward. Put your hand to the plough and don’t look back. Vested interests are getting in the way, not just those who own most of the wealth, but also those who possess most of the power. South Africa will come right if the Zondo and Nugent commissions can drain the swamp. The US will come right if a populist president can overcome the inertia of the Establishment and its manifestation of state capture. Could it be that South Africa will need a leader who can stand up to the status quo, instead of one at the heart of it? Instead of a one-party state, we need coalition government, where transparency reigns and impunity is a forgotten word. Those who captured the state should be imprisoned, not pardoned; that will also be part of draining the swamp. If I sound confused, I am. But I like the noises that Uncle “Terror” Lekota is making, and the prospect of whites and blacks working together to find a solution that is just, fair and inclusive. Polarisation will tear us apart.  * Stephens is the executive director for the Desmond Tutu Centre for Leadership and writes in his personal capacity. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.