JOHANNESBURG – I really do not know which economist coined the phrase, but it’s largely accepted that a technical recession is when a country has two successive quarters of economic contraction. At school we were taught the simpler definition (the nuts and bolts version), that a recession is a significant decline in economic activity, evident in less income, less sales, less production and less employment. One of my lecturers, some seven years ago, quoted Ronald Reagan as saying that “recession is when your neighbour loses his job, depression is when you lose yours and recovery is when Jimmy Carter loses his”. The moral of the story is that a recession, technical or otherwise, is not good for any country. But it’s not all bleak, especially for start-ups… According to Forbes Opinion, start-ups, with their inherent agility, can take advantage of a weaker economy and come out on top. From day one, start-ups operate an inherently lean business model, while maximising value for customers. While economic uncertainty is never a desirable situation, some of the world’s greatest businesses started during a downturn or recession. Importantly, many reports suggest start-ups are some of a developed country’s greatest employers, as they scale to become big companies in their own right. Recessions create problems. They also slow investment in innovation down. Consumers and businesses are looking for solutions to problems which present opportunities for start-ups to solve. A start-up built during the tough times is designed from the ground up to be a lean, mean, efficient machine – whether they’ve bootstrapped or not. These habits should stay with them when the market recovers, giving them higher profit margins since they’ll be able to lift prices once consumers and clients are spending again. Consumer confidence If one can build and grow a business when consumer confidence is down and businesses are tightening their belts, then the business will be bulletproof when things improve. As a country, South Africa can also lessen the impact of a recession by focusing more on its local start-up environment, with initiatives such as:   Some might argue that the unemployed would gladly be a nine-to-fiver, but that’s not the point here. This challenge is that we’re not producing as much as we could with the skills we have. So how can the skilled be used wisely to produce more? Any type of recession presents a complicated economic landscape, which ultimately affects every South African in some way. For start-ups, there are a lot of reasons it might be a great time. Smart start-ups should begin taking advantage of new opportunities and unique needs presented by the economic downturn. And with the country’s fiscal help, which is crucial, small businesses can definitely help turn the economic tide for the better. Kizito Okechukwu is the co-chairperson of Global Entrepreneurship Network (GEN) Africa; 22 on Sloane is Africa’s largest start-up campus. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. - BUSINESS REPORT