Johannesburg - From an announcement of a technical recession, to a fire at the Lisbon building that claimed three lives, here's a round-up of some of the stories that dominated headlines this week: A lawyered up former Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste appeared before four committees of Parliament and in four hours he absolved himself from responsibility for the collapse of the company. He shifted the blame to Steinhoff former partner Andreas Seifert. Read more here In Johannesburg, the Lisbon building which housed several government departments caught fire and saw the death of three firefighters. The Gauteng Health Department has been asked to explain why it didn’t move office after a report which showed that the building was only 21% compliant. Read more here South Africa has officially entered a technical recession, after Stats SA announced on Tuesday that the country's real gross domestic product had decreased by 0.7% in the second quarter of the year. Read more here AfriForum received a grilling in Parliament on Thursday when it appeared before the constitutional review committee, after it telling MPs that the first white people to arrive in the country not steal land but negotiated with black land-owners. Read more here Eight workers died while working on a propellant blending process at the Rheinmettal Denel Munition depot, outside Somerset West. Read more here Acting GCIS head Phumla Williams, during her state capture testimony, revealed that former Communications Minister Faith Muthambi stripped her of her powers so she could steal money from the state. Read more here Parliament has set a date for the inquiry into the controversial Gupta family’s naturalisation. Parliament's Home Affairs committee said it will call Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba and the former director-general Mkuseli Apleni as key witnesses. Read more here Top ANC MP Vincent Smith confirmed that he 'assisted' former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's son to get a job at the ANC in Gauteng in 2015. This after it emerged that Smith received payments from Bosasa. Read more here The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in North Gauteng has withdrew charges against the former Hawks head Anwa Dramat related to the illegal rendition of several Zimbabwean nationals. Read more here The South African Institution of Civil Engineering (Saice) booted Manglin Pillay’s as chief executive with immediate effect, following public outrage over his comments questioning whether women are suited to high-powered careers. Read more here