Johannesburg - Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has dismissed Lynne Brown's application to cross-examine former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas at the state capture inquiry. Zondo, who appeared frustrated with Brown's lawyer Simmy Lebala, ruled immediately after Lebala was done with arguments that he could not grant Brown's application as she had not provided her version of events. "Your time is up. Ms Lynne Brown's application is dismissed. She has not put up her version and I am not at this stage prepared to grant her leave to cross-examine. She is free to renew the application if she meets the requirements," said Zondo Brown had sought to question Jonas based on his testimony where he mentioned her name. Jonas had told the inquiry that Ajay Gupta had mentioned that the family had worked with and protected a number of people in the government and mentioned Brown as one of those people. "Mr Jonas testified that Mr Gupta told him that I and Brian Molefe are protected by them and nothing would happen to him if he accepted the appointment as minister of finance in the place of Nhlanhla Nene. The evidence of Mr Jonas mentioned my name," said Lebala quoting Brown's statement to the commission. Zondo replied and said: "Where is her version? If you cannot answer that whatever you say is not going to help. If someone wants to apply for cross-examination they have to supply their version of events. So you can say whatever you want to say but if you do not have that then you will find it hard to convince me to grant her application". Brown was a former minister of public enterprises and she was accused of doing the Gupta family's bidding and allowing them to appoint board members for state-owned-enterprises. Brown has denied these allegations. The inquiry will resume next week Thursday. Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan and Barbara Hogan, the former minister of public enterprises, are expected to testify in early October. IOL