As Nonjabulo Mteki left the dock of the Durban High Court, she displayed a gait that hurt and angered Singh’s family. “The way she walked showed there was no remorse, no guilt, no feeling that she had done something wrong. That’s what hurt so much,” said Singh’s sister, Jayshree Maharaj. “We knew her so well. All our kids grew up with her. We trusted her. She had so much freedom. Even when my sister went overseas, she could open the house to clean up.” She and her husband, Ken, said they were happy with the sentences. Judge Bert Laing said he found no compelling reason not to mete out anything less than the minimum sentences and said Mteki was not found guilty of murder because he gave her the benefit of the doubt. However, she had assisted the murderers and helped cover their tracks.  He also saw no reason to give anything less than life sentences to the two Tanzanians who had overpowered Singh, and in their haste to fasten tape to Singh’s mouth and nasal passages, caused her to suffocate. Amon Ngongi and Ally Jumar Abdullah also received 15 years for robbery. Another man, a Nigerian only known as Kenny Osita Oriki, is believed to have been involved, but cannot be traced. Oriki is believed to have been informed by Mteki of the diamonds, gold and foreign currencies that Singh had in her home and the plan was hatched to rob her. In addition to stringing out the much-spoken about murder statistics in South Africa - an average of 57 a day, making the country almost like a war zone - Laing highlighted foreigners’ involvement in crime. “There is concern about the influx of foreigners into South Africa and it may be justified if it relates to the increase in crime by foreigners,” he said, adding that Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha had recently said 7.5% of prisoners in South African jails were foreign nationals. While he questioned their claim to be refugees from political turmoil, he reminded them they were guests of the South African government and had bitten off the hand that fed them. “This country provided you with the opportunity to start your lives over again. You did the opposite in return. You took the life of someone who made this possible and contributed to the fiscus to make you have this opportunity.” Laing said 57-year-old Singh had been defenceless. “There was no reason to kill her. She was tied up and offered no resistance.” The judge also said the two Tanzanians, who were hearing court proceedings through a Swahili interpreter, had previous convictions relating to housebreaking. “It seems both progressed up the criminal ladder and committed more serious offences as time went on.” Laing further noted that all three had incomes - the Tanzanians were involved in small businesses - and were supporting dependants. After the sentencing, Abdullah’s defence advocate applied for his client to have leave to appeal against conviction and sentencing, which Laing refused. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY