Durban - Set in the scenic town of Howick, just outside Pietermaritzburg in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands stands a steel monument celebrating Nelson Mandela, South Africa’s first democratically elected president. Designed by artist Marco Cianfanelli, the sculpture stands 10m tall and is made from 50 steel columns anchored in a concrete base. The image of Mandela comes to focus and is visible when one stands about 35m from the sculpture. It was here that Mandela was arrested in 1962 disguised as a driver under the nom de guerre David Motsamayi, just months after he founded the armed wing of the African National Congress (ANC). He had just returned from a trip across Africa drumming up support for the new Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), or “Spear of the Nation”. He was arrested while travelling illegally to Johannesburg from Durban, where he had briefed ANC leader Albert Luthuli on his trip. Mandela was jailed for five years for organising an illegal conference abroad and for leaving the country without permission, before being sentenced to life imprisonment in 1964, when authorities discovered he was the head of the ANC military wing. He went on to spend 27 years in prison. "That day, on August 5, 1962, Madiba’s journey as an underground revolutionary came to an abrupt end. Somehow, the police had known in advance that one of the nation’s most wanted men would be posing that day as a driver delivering his employer to Johannesburg. The police had prepared well. "Unwittingly, they had planned their regime’s own demise by opening a chapter in our history that opened the floodgates of freedom for those of us who had long lived under oppression," KwaZulu-Natal cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube has said. "The Nelson Mandela Capture Site is, therefore, one of the most important sites in the liberation movement’s quest to free our nation." Mandela would later write in his autobiography, the Long Walk to Freedom: "At Cedara, a small town just past Howick, I noticed a Ford V8 filled with white men shoot past us on the right. "I instinctively turned round to look behind and I saw two more cars filled with white men. Suddenly, in front of us, the Ford was signalling to us to stop. "I knew in that instant that my life on the run was over; my 17 months of ‘freedom’ were about to end." Visitors to the site are taken through a visual museum of Mandela’s life from his younger days, to his work with uMkhonto weSizwe, to his arrest and life after his imprisonment at Robben Island. According to the website, the purchase of the farm opposite the monument site made it possible to put in place the process to mark the Nelson Mandela Capture Site as a major destination in South Africa for citizens and international visitors to engage with Nelson Mandela’s legacy.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Director of the Apartheid Museum Christopher Till, responsible for the project, identified this as a catalytic and major element required for the proposed development on the new site and an example of how the installation of art into an environment of history and heritage can be a powerful force. Cianfanelli and Jeremy Rose (Mashabane Rose Architects) originally collaborated in 2007 with a view to making an interactive sculpture project that incorporated the image of Nelson Mandela. Culture Mechanics, a specialist museum, exhibition, design and art consultancy curated the project and commissioned the installation of this piece on the site.   After viewing the photographic journey through Mandela's life, visitors then take a short walk where they are able to view the Madiba portrait.  The sculpture, which eloquently becomes part of the surrounding landscape, and visually shifts throughout the day, with the sculpture itself being affected by the changing light and atmosphere behind and around it. This is the largest artwork of its kind in South Africa and has instantly become an international symbol of the iconic status of Mandela declared by the United Nations and celebrated every year on his birthday as Mandela Day. The site is open daily from 9 am to 4 pm. The Mercury, IOL and ANA