JOHANNESBURG - A South African business delegation is expected to depart for Lima, Peru to search for trade and investment opportunities in the mining, construction agro-processing and services sector, the trade and industry department said on Friday. “Our objective is to find business people who can invest in our company or companies that can be interested in partnering with us for in projects that we tender for at the mines," Managing Director of the North-West-based Ditsogo Projects, Tebogo Mashego said in a statement. "Some of the machinery and equipment that we require for our work need to be imported from other parts of the world. We will also be on the lookout for an opportunity to invest in Peru as the country’s mining sector is vibrant and offers a myriad investment and trade opportunities.” The group of business people would depart on Saturday. The department organised and funded the trip which would include a business seminar, business-to-business meetings and site visits to Peruvian companies that are interested in doing business with their South African companies. Mashego said Peru offers an opportunity to "seek investment and partnerships" for projects that her steel engineering and metal fabrication company was working on. Managing Director of the Mpumalanga-based Moopetsi Mining Solutions, Makobe Makgale said he was seeking investors in Peru for his mining projects. “We are planning to open a chrome mine after we were granted four mining prospecting rights in Limpopo by the Department of Mineral Resources. We are travelling to Peru with the aim of meeting business people who could be interested in investing in our company or partnering with us. We are optimistic that we will succeed because Peru is big in mining and we are hopeful that there are companies that would like to work with us in South Africa,” Makgale said. The Chief Operations Officer of Modi Mining, Motlapele Molefi said she was delighted about the trip as mining and agriculture are the biggest contributors to the country’s economy. “Our goal is to explore both trade and investment opportunities in the two sectors as our plan is to expand our market for our products and services. It is our ambition to spread our wings and be significant players in the mining sphere internationally. One of our long-term goals is to acquire one of the big mining companies that already has a notable international footprint,” said Molefi. - African News Agency (ANA)