Cape Town - The Discovery Tough Mudder is no ordinary mud run – it’s an epic experience. In this escape from the everyday, you won’t just face your fears, you’ll test your strength, stamina and grit and help those around you do the same. All you need to bring with you is the strength to leave your fears in the parking lot. It comes as no surprise that the first ever Discovery Tough Mudder event in South Africa has attracted the interest of The Sunflower Fund’s ambassador, adventurer Riaan Manser and his wife Vasti. The Mansers marry a sense of adventure with a passion for philanthropy to rally support for causes like The Sunflower Fund, a non-profit organisation that recruits stem cell donors to help in the fight against blood diseases like leukaemia. Riaan is no stranger to pushing the boundaries of his comfort zone, having rewritten the definition of tenacity over the past 17 years and so becoming the epitome of courage and determination. Riaan became famous for his penchant for adventure by completing the following unparalleled world firsts:   Now taking on another first, Riaan and Vasti will tackle the full 16km Discovery Tough Mudder course made up of more than 20 obstacles, to raise funds for The Sunflower Fund. The couple live by the motto "don’t do your best, get the job done!"  Their personal mantra is exactly what the Discovery Tough Mudder is about, doing what it takes to get yourself and others to the finish line. The Discovery Tough Mudder South Africa takes place on 15 September 2018 at the decommissioned military testing ground at Houwteq Campus, High Rising Road, Elgin, Western Cape. You can also join in and challenge yourself by registering to participate in the race. If you finish, you will be automatically inducted into the Tough Mudder Legion – a community of people who get stuff done. To participate in this life-changing experience, register online at  https://toughmudder.co.za/disc/iol/ To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. More about The Sunflower Fund The organisation is a donor recruitment centre that fights blood diseases like leukaemia byrecruiting stem cell donors. It maintains a registry of donors committed to helping anyone in need of a life-saving stem cell transplant. All funds raised goes to meeting the costs of tissue-typing associated with recruiting new stem cell donors and growing the patient support fund which assists patients with transplant costs. You can support their effort by making an online secure donation at www.givengain.com/c/sunflowerfund