 London - Myra Hindley was raped, throttled and beaten by ‘Nazi’ Ian Brady to make her kill children, her deathbed papers say. The Moors murderer also drugged her grandmother and threatened to hurl the frail pensioner down the stairs, she claimed. Hindley penned a graphic seven-page account – made public for the first time this week – of horrific abuse at the hands of her sadistic accomplice. But the private papers, which she handed over just hours before she died, also include a letter Brady wrote pouring scorn on her sob story and saying the couple were ‘a unified force, not two conflicting entities’. Brady has previously insisted Hindley ‘was as ruthless as me’ and said she enjoyed killing children as they embarked on their 1960s murder spree. The twisted couple’s mutual hatred as they languished behind bars is laid bare in the documents which go on display this weekend. They were handed over by Hindley on November 15, 2002, as she was escorted from HMP Highpoint to West Suffolk hospital where she died that day aged 60. In a letter to her solicitors dated June 3, 1998, in support of her bid for parole, Hindley describes how Brady had once ‘bitten my breasts so badly, for his sadistic pleasure’ and had repeatedly raped and degraded her in other ways. A previously unseen autobiography chapter by Hindley is included in the documents, in which she claims Brady told her how they could commit ‘the perfect murder’. She wrote: ‘He was a fanatical Nazi, but despite that I loved him, well more of an infatuation than love.’ The pair murdered five children aged ten to 17 in Greater Manchester between 1963 and 1965. Their first victim Pauline Reade, 16, disappeared on July 12, 1963. Hindley claimed: ‘As we were driving home, he [Brady] told me that if I’d shown any signs of “backing out”, I would have finished up in the same grave as Pauline Reade did. I just said “I know”.’ Hindley, a neighbour of Pauline’s, said she ‘began to shake and cry’ when she saw her parents’ appeal for their missing daughter in a local paper. Hindley wrote: ‘He [Brady] grabbed the paper off me ... and began to strangle me. Before I lost consciousness, I heard him remind me of what he’d said after Pauline’s murder, and that threat still stood. When I came round, he’d gone.’ She said Brady threatened her with a Stanley knife and enjoyed pointing his gun at her. Hindley even claimed Brady drugged her grandmother, in whose house she lived, and then threatened to shove the elderly lady down a staircase. Hindley and Brady were convicted of the murders of Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans in 1966, and Brady was also convicted of the murder of John Kilbride with Hindley found guilty of acting as an accessory. In 1987, they both confessed to two more murders – of Pauline Reade and Keith Bennett. At least four of the children were sexually assaulted. Keith’s body was never found. Hindley’s self-serving letter was part of her failed appeal to reduce her life sentence. But Brady, who died at 79 last year, had already written to then Home Secretary Jack Straw in 1997 in a bid to scupper her efforts. He claimed his former lover had regarded the killings as ‘binding us ever closer’. The new papers have been acquired by the Crime Through Time museum at Littledean Jail in Gloucestershire, where they will go on display this weekend.  Daily Mail