The family of Lesley John Paulse, 67, are heartbroken after hearing that the killers shot the elderly man even after he had put his hands up and took off his cap to show his face. The man, who is fondly known as Boeta Les, is a well-known painter who has lived in his council flat in St. Lucia Court for more than 40 years. His wife, Veronica, 63, says she is struggling to come to terms with the death of her husband of 46 years. She says on Friday morning, Boeta Les left home at 8am to go to the Hanover Park Day Hospital to collect her high-blood pressure tablets, just like he did every month. “He came back and told me the day hospital was very full so he came home to eat something, and the shooting happened on his way back there,” Veronica says with tears in her eyes. Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, says Philippi police were called to the scene at 10.10am where they found Oupa Les with a gunshot wound to his chest. Veronica says a man who knew her husband picked him up and rushed with him to the day hospital. “I was at home and just before 1pm, one of the neighbours came running and screaming telling me he was shot,” she says. “A neighbour took me to the hospital. They said they were very sorry, they tried their best but he was dead. “A woman who helped pick him up in the street gave me his cap and said she found the bullet casing inside.” The family says they were told that shortly before he was shot, Boeta Les took off his cap and told the gunmen: “Dit is ek, Boeta Les. (It's me, Boeta Les)” But they still opened fire and left the elderly man to die in the street. “That is what makes me so heartsore. I mean, everyone knows him and he does everything to help the community,” says Veronica. “He was retired, but sometimes he would paint people’s houses for free. You see his workshop here? This is where he fixed children's broken school shoes and soccer balls. “He did so much for the community and he was my one and only love. I met him when I was 17.” The couple’s daughter, Shaqeelah Carollisen, 46, says her father will be remembered for his helpfulness. She says he would walk her to the bus stop in the morning, and her children and neighbours’ kids to school. “He was a community worker and even fetched people’s tablets at the day hospital,” says Shaqeelah. Daily Voice