Johannesburg - With around two months till the much anticipated Global Citizen event in Johannesburg, South African businessman Patrice Motsepe, his wife entrepreneur Dr. Precious Moloi-Motsepe, Ministers Lindiwe Sisulu and Jeff Radebe will appear on the stage at the Great Lawn in Central Park alongside world leaders, musical artists and activists, where the legacy of Nelson Mandela will be honoured in his centenary year. On Saturday, live from Central Park, Sisulu, Radebe, as well as the Motsepes are expected to address festival goers at the Global Citizen Festival in New York with Naomi Campbell leading a special tribute to Mandela in his centenary year. With 60,000 Global Citizens gathered in Central Park and millions tuning in from across the globe, South Africans can expect to be part of the show with a special  live intro to Johannesburg from New York and headlining performances on stage at the Festival by local artists alongside The Weeknd, Janet Jackson, Shawn Mendes, Cardi B, Janelle Monáe and a special Guest performance by John Legend.  The South African leg of the Global Citizen Festivals will be on December 2, 2018. The New York Festival can be live streamed exclusively on YouTube and Twitter from 10 pm to 4 am. The Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 will be presented and hosted by our Major Partner The Motsepe Foundation, with major partners, Johnson & Johnson, Cisco, Nedbank, Vodacom, Big Concerts, House of Mandela, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Goalkeepers, Eldridge Industries, and Associate Partner, HP. Since the first Global Citizen Festival in New York in 2012, Global Citizen has grown into one of the largest, most visible platforms for young people around the world calling on world leaders to honour their responsibilities in achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and ending extreme poverty by 2030. The organisation has taken its action-based model to Australia, India, the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, and Canada, and created a platform for activists to learn about the issues they care most about, take action, and earn rewards for doing so. Global Citizens have generated commitments and policy announcements from leaders valued at over $37.9 billion that are set to affect the lives of more than 2.25 billion people. This year alone Global Citizens have secured 29 commitments totalling over $2.9 billion that are set to affect the lives of more than 501 million people by 2030. African News Agency/ANA