The New York-based private-equity firm had agreed to provide debt and equity on the understanding that Unity would terminate its Nigerian listing to trade its stock in the US, Milost said in an emailed statement on Monday. The term sheet was signed and approved by the board of Unity, which needed the capital to build its buffers and to expand, the firm said. It would ultimately have acquired 60percent in the Lagos-based bank. Shortly after news of the deal broke on Bloomberg, “Milost started receiving threatening emails from a gentleman who says he is politically connected to the powers that could shut Milost out of Nigeria if Milost didn’t terminate the Unity Bank transaction,” the private-equity firm said. Negative articles started appearing in the local press and last week, Unity issued a “false statement which denied signing a binding commitment agreement,” Milost said. Unity didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. Unity, which was formed out of the merger of nine banks between December 2005 and March 2006, said in April last year that it was in talks to sell its non-performing loans to avoid penalties after missing a deadline set by regulators on its recapitalisation plans. Some small- and mid-sized Nigerian lenders are battling to rebuild capital levels after a slump in oil prices triggered a foreign-currency shortage and a contraction in the country's economy in 2016 made it difficult for businesses to repay loans. Milost, which has $25bn in committed capital, will focus on its other investments in Nigeria, chief executive officer Kim Freeman said in the statement. The firm will soon release $21million to oil-services company Japaul Oil and Maritime Services and another $10m to Resort Savings and Loans. Milost buys shares of companies at a minimum 50percent premium to their market value, and then pegs the price over the next 90days. If the securities fail to exceed this threshold, the target company will pay the difference to Milost in the form of extra stock, and a penalty of 10percent to 20percent of the discount that the share is trading at over a five-day period. - Bloomberg