CAPE TOWN - Google Maps announced that the app will be available in 39 new languages, the company announced today in a blog post. These languages — including Afrikaans, Danish, Filipino, Hebrew, Icelandic, Mongolian, Serbian, Slovak, Swahili, Turkish, and Vietnamese, to name a few — are spoken by around 1.25 billion people. The new language additions are coming to the mobile and desktop versions of Google Maps on iOS, Android, Mac, and Windows OS. However, There are features that the company added last year and the beginning of this year that not many people are aware of. WATCH:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Here is a list of features that may be unknown to you: 1. Remember where you parked your car using Google Maps (Image: Screenshot) Google Maps added this feature to helps both Android and iOS users to find their parked cars. In an official blog post, the company added, “Android users can tap the blue dot and then tap “Save your parking” to add their parking location to the map". "They’ll see a label on the map itself identifying where they parked their car. Tap on that label to open up your parking card, where you can add additional details about your parking spot.” 2. Motorbike mode (Image by: Google India) Google introduced a feature called  ‘Two-wheeler’ mode at the Google for India event this year. The mode will show routes for road trips with shortcuts along with customised traffic and arrival time estimations. The mode will also show major landmarks on the routes so that riders can plan their trip well. Currently, the feature is only available in India and will be available in other countries in following months. 3. Book an uber from google maps (Image: Screenshot) Google teamed up with Uber to allow users to book a ride directly from Google Maps. The feature is available for both iOS and Android users. The Uber integration in Google Maps, enable users to request for an Uber directly from the Maps. Along with this, users will also be able to check when the driver is en route to the pickup location. Additionally, Users can also contact the driver and monitor the trip status from the Google Maps. 4. Find a public bathroom This feature was added to help users find a public bathroom in their region Users’ just need to write 'Toilet' or 'Public Toilet' in Google map and then the app will help you navigate to the nearest toilet. 5. Indoor Map With indoor Google Maps, visitors can spend less time searching for building directories and more time discovering new points of interest. Simply zoom in and out of a building and go floor to floor with indoor maps. How it works: 1. On your computer or smartphone, open Google Maps. 2. Search for a place that has indoor maps. 3. To see the floor plan, zoom into the map and click on a building or place. 4. In the bottom right, choose among levels and floors. Additionally, if you to learn more about a place in the building, click the place on the map. READ ALSO: Google Maps to receive a new feature: Find out here! READ ALSO: WATCH: Google launches new job search experience TOP STORY: LIVE UPDATE: Steinhoff - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE