CAPE TOWN - Telecommunications giant, MTN announced that consumers will receive double airtime value with the new MTN 100% BONUS Starter Pack. This comes after the mobile operator announced their Prepaid Portfolio revamp. MTN stated earlier this month that it has put a roadmap in place in order to deal with the overhaul of prepaid products. The overhaul has already seen adjustments to the data portfolio bundle. MTN is now offering a 100% BONUS Starter Pack. When customers recharge, they will receive 100% bonus airtime. The starter pack is available to all prepaid customers. Customers will also receive free minutes which they can use for all networks and to surf the net. According to MTN, the bonus starter pack promotion expires in 6 months. READ ALSO: MTN increased their prepaid call rates - All the details here Meanwhile, other mobile operators are offering similar value rewards to their customers. Business Report contacted Vodacom, Cell C and Telkom to find out what similar offers they have. Take a look at Cell C's benefits: Tariff                                         Rands per minute                               Benefits                                         Valid for Megabonus                              R1.50                                                  Black data                                     Depending on amount of recharge. Supercharge                            R1.10                                                  Data, SMS and airtime                  Up to 7 days 66 cents                                   R0.66                                                  No benefits                                    Undisclosed  Take a look at Vodacom's benefits: Tariff                                         Rands per minute/second                               Benefits                                                                                                      Valid for Power bonus                                                                                                   50% bonus airtime                                                                                       1 day Anytime per second                 2 cents per second                                         Nightshift - Vodacom to Vodacom call Daily free calls                         R1.20 per minute                                            Charged for first three minutes of call and remaining 60 minutes is free     All day 79 cents                                   R0.79 cents per minute Yebo4less                                R2.50  per minute                                            Night shift and up to 100% discount on calls between 20:00 pm and 08:00 am ForYou                                         R1.40 per minute                                             Night shift  Take a look at Telkom's benefits: Tariff                                                        Rands per minute/second                               Benefits                                                       Valid for Telkom More                                           R0.95 cents per minute                                   Double airtime reward                                  7 days Sim-Sonke                                              R0.29 cents per minute                                   Free SMS's                                                   7 days Smart broadband wireless prepaid          Undisclosed                                                    Double data                                                  21 days ALSO READ: Check out the new data bundle prices for MTN TOP STORY: Rate hike still on the cards - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 