CAPE TOWN - Shoprite will officially part ways with its current Chief Executive, Marius Bosman in July and welcome a new executive to the forefront, Anton de Bruyn. Following last week's announcement by Shoprite that Bosman is set to retire in July after being with the group for 25 years, Shoprite will now make entry for its new executive who is no stranger to the retail group. We take a look at the soon to be executive who will be taking over the executive seat from Bosman. Who is de Bruyn? Picture: Shoprite CFO designate, Anton de Bruyn. (Supplied). De Bruyn will occupy the position of chief financial officer and executive director of Shoprite Holdings on July 2, 2018. “I am looking forward to take over the responsibility and the challenge of this position at the biggest retailer in Africa. Under the leadership of Pieter Engelbrecht the company has enormous growth potential and I am excited to be part of a dynamic team that will steer the Group to further heights,” said de Bruyn. De Bruyn has been with Shoprite for the past 15 years. Having completed his academic studies at Stellenbosch University and Unisa respectively, de Bruyn holds a BCom Accounting Degree and Bcom Honours Degree. The CFO designate is a qualified Chartered Accountant. READ ALSO: Retailer Shoprite says CFO to retire in July Career He began his career at consulting firm, Coopers & Lybrand as an articled clerk. He then practiced as an audit senior for three years from 1994. De Bruyn then went to work as a group financial manager for manufacturing company, Harwill Investments and Henderson Investors in the United Kingdom as finance manager. Shoprite The CFO joined South African retailer, Shoprite in November 2000 as a project accountant. Three years later, he was promoted to financial manager for the non-RSA division. Here, his responsibility extended to all non-RSA  financial managers across the continent. De Bruyn was essentially responsible for all financial decisions pertaining to the division, as well as meetings with banks, auditors and senior executives. Hard work He continued to climb the corporate financial ladder and found himself appointed as deputy general manager Group Finance in 2014. As deputy general manager for Group Finance, de Bruyn was responsible for group operations and worked closely with Bosman and CEO, Pieter Engelbrecht. De Bruyn is immensely involved in the business affairs of Shoprite and serves on the boards of various main subsidiaries of Shoprite Holdings. ALSO READ: Bosman’s retirement signalsthe end of an era for Shoprite TOP STORY: How small businesses can hack their market place using Vodacom - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE