INTERNATIONAL - Google’s in-house incubator Area 120 just released an app called Grasshopper, which teaches you how to code JavaScript through a series of fun games, as reported by 9to5Google. The app has different puzzles and quizzes, that ultimately act as lessons to teach you how to code. According to the coders who worked on the app, it is to make coding feel fun and approachable as it increasingly is becoming a necessary skill. "Grasshopper was created by a team of passionate coders from Google’s workshop for experimental products, Area 120. Coding is becoming such an essential skill, and we want to make it possible for everyone to learn even when life gets busy. We made Grasshopper to help folks like you get into coding in a fun and easy way", said the coders in the about us section on the website. How it works: 1. You log in with your Google account, 2. You are then shown many basic coding definitions, and then you start the exercises. 3.  The further along you get, the more complicated the puzzles become. 4. The app will also ask if you’d like to set a practice schedule and get reminders — daily or a couple of times a week — so you don’t lose any recently learned skills. Grasshopper begins with what it calls “The Fundamentals,” which includes things like calling functions, variables, and strings. Like most games, Grasshopper also has a reward structure, which is an achievements section within Grasshopper. Here, you can see how many concepts you’ve unlocked, the number of JavaScript keys you’ve used, and how many days long your current coding streak is. The app currently holds a 4.7 rating in the Google Play store and 2,829 out of 3,352 people gave it a 5-star rating. So far, it also received over 100 000 downloads. Grasshopper is free to download from both Google’s Play Store and the App Store. WATCH:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. READ ALSO: WATCH: Google Chrome's new update - What you need to know READ ALSO: WATCH: A new AR microscope created by Google’s can help detect cancer TOP STORY: Exclusive: Inside deeds office saga - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE