CAPE TOWN - The 19-year-old theme park in Century City, Ratanga Junction will be closing its doors next month to welcome a new mixed development. The closure of the theme park comes after property group, Rabie Property acquired Century City back in 2004. The group earmarked the theme park for a new development. “Rabie acquired Ratanga Junction when it purchased the remaining undeveloped land and associated rights of Century City in 2004. It said at the time and consistently since then that Ratanga would be redeveloped when the land was required.  That time has now arrived”, said Marketing and Communications Manager for Rabie Property, Maggie Rowley. After much speculation over the years, Rabie Properties has confirmed that Ratanga will close on May 1. This leaves only two weeks in which people can experience the last of the theme park. Besides the closure of Ratanga, the theme park will reportedly find other grounds and still be operational. Therefore, it is not the end of the 19-year old theme park. Rowley said that negotiations are currently underway to move some of the smaller rides to another venue in Cape Town. However, the details will be announced once it is finalised. “The two remaining roller coasters have been sold to an operator who will be moving them offshore”, added Rowley. In the meantime, Ratanga offered the public a thank you for their support over the past 19 years by selling tickets for R95 this past weekend. This will also be available for this coming weekend, said Rowley. File image: Ratanga Junction. (Screengrab). Meanwhile, planning for the Ratanga redevelopment is still ongoing. After its closure, the rides will be decommissioned and removed. “A great deal of work will need to be done reconfiguring and servicing the Ratanga terrain to accommodate the planned 120 000 square metre redevelopment before any development can take place”, said Rowley. When asked what the new development will bring to Century City, Rowley said that the overall vision is for the redevelopment of Ratanga to be that of a mixed-use development comprising of commercial, residential (possibly including retirement) and hospitality/leisure components set around waterways and a public park. As the approval process from Council is still underway, Rowley was unable to provide a timeline of the expected completion date for the new development. However, she did say that the redevelopment will take place on a phased based over a number of years. The exact timing also depends on market demand, she added. READ ALSO: EXCLUSIVE: Ratanga Junction to close in May 2018 ALSO READ: Ratanga Junction not closing down TOP STORY: KPMG in damage control over VBS - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE