CAPE TOWN - Consumer Reports has released its report on the best smartphone to own in 2018. The report used a number of factors to evaluate each phone. They were then given a score out of 100. The factors included: Breakage: The testers placed the phones in a tumbler to simulate the effects of repeatedly being dropped. They also looked at factors such as load times and battery usage. Camera and audio quality were also investigated and compared. According to the report, the best smartphone to own is between the Samsung’s Galaxy S9 and S9+, as they jointly ranked first. “The new phones offer stepped-up security features, super slow-motion video, and a camera that can turn your image into a personalised emoji, Consumer Reports said. “In the end, though, it was durability, speedier processing, and top-quality sound that nudged the S9 and S9+ just ahead of the competition in an exceptionally crowded field. Just six points separate our top 20 smartphones.” Richard Fisco, Consumer Reports’ head of smartphone testing explained that Samsung devices are not perfect. "It really comes down to personal preference when you’re talking about high-end phones these days,” said Fisco. "That’s not to say Samsung’s new phones are perfect. There’s a noticeable drop in battery life from the previous generation. And the phones’ cameras have taken a tiny step backward in performance, according to our testing, while still remaining impressive. But in both models, the good far outweighs the bad", Fisco concluded. The factors that made the Samsung S9 and S9+ top on the list: 1. Improved Durability 2. Faster Processor 3. Great Stereo Speakers 4. Convenient Security Features 5. Speaker quality 6. Convenient security features "The cameras on the Galaxy S9 and S9+ are fun to play with, and the beefed-up biometric security features are quick and easy to use. But other new features are more kitschy than practical", Consumer Reports said. "Samsung’s new flagship phones are more resistant to breaking, are plenty fast, and are more pleasing to the ear. And as Galaxy fans have come to expect, they once again raise the standard for overall performance", the Report added. So how did Apple compare? Well, they did not even come close to the top five. Samsung products dominated the top five spots on the list. Apple’s iPhone X was placed eighth with 78 points while the iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone 8 took sixth and seventh places respectively with 79 points each. The Samsung Galaxy S8 ranked third with 80 points, followed by Samsung S8 Active in 4th place (79 points) and Galaxy S8 Plus (79 points) in 5th place. WATCH:   READ ALSO: SAMSUNG REVIEW: Is the S9 worth the price-tag? READ ALSO: WATCH: Samsung to create a foldable device and rollable Tablet TOP STORY: One last ride for Ratanga Junction - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE