Skhumbuzo Gumede, 17, collapsed just outside the gate of Intshisekelo High School after he was stabbed once in the chest, allegedly by a fellow Grade 10 pupil, on Tuesday morning. His brother, Siyanda Gumede, said he was called to the gate from class and found his younger sibling on the ground, propped against one of the other pupils. “I just knew he was gone. His eyes were white and his tongue was out. There was blood all over his shirt,” said Siyanda. The Grade 12 pupil said he could not bring himself to help pupils and a teacher to take Skhumbuzo to a clinic, and instead he ran home to alert the family. Skhumbuzo was declared dead at the clinic. He was allegedly stabbed about 100m away from school and ran to the school gate, clutching his bleeding chest. Their father, Jabulani Dludla, said he was told that Skhumbuzo had beaten a classmate on Friday. The classmate had allegedly grabbed the class register Skhumbuzo was using to do roll call, and tore it. “My son confronted him and they got into a fight. It was broken up after my son beat him. “They were taken to the ­office, but the other boy walked out the school gate,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. On Monday there was an attempt by their classmates to make peace, but the other pupil was not at school. Skhumbuzo’s family believe the other boy was suspended, but this could not be confirmed as the education department had yet to receive a full report on the incident. It could also not confirm if the pupil had previously been suspended for another fight, as alleged by the family. Dludla said he had gone to the boy’s home, hoping his parents would agree to hand their son over to the police. “We have no problem with them, they did not send their child to kill my child. We were expecting that they would show Ubuntu and sympathise with us. But they were very evasive, in fact we believe they were hiding him in the house,” said Dludla. He said he wanted the law to take its course. It was just on Sunday that the family held a joint celebration to mark Siyanda’s birthday and Skhumbuzo’s birthday, which fell on April12. “He was younger than me, but we looked out for each other,” said Siyanda. He said he had been encouraged to meet psychologists provided by the department. Education spokesman Sihle Mlotshwa said the department would prioritise the matter, and that MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane sent his condolences to the family and school community. Jabulani Shezi, whose son is also in Grade 10 at the school, said Skhumbuzo’s stabbing was yet another shocking act of violence at the school. He said some weeks ago, the school was almost closed after suspended pupils threw stones at the school, saying if they are not allowed back in, no one would be safe there. The Mercury