CAPE TOWN - Apple launched a new robot, Daisy that can retrieve valuable goods inside an iPhone by taking it apart. Daisy is the latest Apple robot, after Liam which was released in 2016. Daisy has been created by using some of Liam’s parts. Daisy, a robot that recycles iPhones, is able to deconstruct nine variations of the iPhone. The recycling robot can also take apart 200 iPhones in an hour. The launch of Daisy is in line with Apple’s short-term program called GiveBack. GiveBack allows individuals to hand in their old devices which can then be recycled. The proceeds of these recycled devices will then be donated to American non-profit environmental organisation, Conservation International up until April 30. “At Apple, we’re constantly working toward smart solutions to address climate change and conserve our planet’s precious resources,” said Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives. “In recognition of Earth Day, we are making it as simple as possible for our customers to recycle devices and do something good for the planet through Apple GiveBack. We’re also thrilled to introduce Daisy to the world, as she represents what’s possible when innovation and conservation meet.” Picture: Daisy, Apple’s latest innovation in material recovery, can disassemble nine different iPhone models to recover valuable materials that traditional recyclers cannot. Notably, Apple released Daisy ahead of Earth Day this Sunday. According to Apple, as part of its commitment to reducing carbon emissions, it released its annual Environment Report. Thus far, Apple's global facilities are powered with 100 percent clean energy. This includes their retail stores, offices and data centres located in 43 countries. "We’re going to keep pushing the boundaries of what is possible with the materials in our products, the way we recycle them, our facilities and our work with suppliers to establish new creative and forward-looking sources of renewable energy because we know the future depends on it", said CEO Tim Cook said in a statement. READ ALSO: Apple is planning to launch its own news subscription service ALSO READ: Apple set to launch the next generation of iOS and macOS in June TOP STORY: Exclusive: Inside deeds office saga WATCH VIDEO HERE - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE