Nairobi - Somalia has disbanded a United
Arab Emirates programme to train some of its troops in a fresh
sign that a dispute in the Gulf involving Qatar is spilling into
the volatile country in the Horn of Africa. The government will take over paying and training the
soldiers in the programme, Defence Minister Mohamed Mursal
Abdirahman told Somalia's state news agency SONNA on Wednesday. The UAE has trained hundreds of troops since 2014 as part of
an effort boosted by an African Union military mission to defeat
an Islamist insurgency and secure the country for the
government, which is backed by Western nations, Turkey and the
United Nations. Analysts say Somalia's relations with UAE are strained by a
dispute between Qatar and Saudi because Mogadishu has refused to
take sides. Arab states have strong trading links with and
influence in Somalia, but that is offset by the sway of Qatar
and its ally Turkey, one of Somalia's biggest foreign investors. "Somalia will fully take over (its troops) trained by the
UAE ... Those forces will be added to the various battalions of
the Somalia National Army," Abdirahman said, adding that the
troops would be integrated into other units on Thursday. There was no immediate comment from the UAE government. Somali security staff seized $9.6 million at Mogadishu
airport on Sunday from a plane that had landed from the UAE. On Tuesday, the UAE denounced the seizure of the money,
which it said was destined to pay the soldiers. The Mogadishu
government said it was investigating what the money was for. The seizure has fuelled a belief among many Somalis that
foreign powers cause their country's problems, analysts said.
Somalia has lacked a strong central government since 1991. UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash said
on Tuesday his government was trying to resolve the issue with
Mogadishu but Abdirahman's statement casts doubt on progress. The Gulf state is one of the main donors to Somalia's
security sector, according to a report by the International
Peace Institute think-tank. Last year the United States suspended food and fuel aid for
most of Somalia's armed forces over corruption concerns. Other
military donors include Turkey, which has a military base in
Somalia. An official from Somalia's foreign affairs ministry told
Reuters the contract with the UAE to train its security forces
expired in 2016, though it was unclear how the programme
appeared to have continued. Reuters