CAPE TOWN - The city of Cape Town is offering support to those in need with rebates on water, sewerage, electricity, waste collection and property rates with indigent support.   Residents can apply for indigent support if they earn R6,000 or less per month and own a household. Whether you apply for indigent support or indigent rates relief depends on your monthly household income. If you earn R4000 or less a month, you qualify for 100% rates relief. If you earn between R4000 and R6000, you may qualify for between 25% and 75% indigent rates relief. You may qualify as an indigent if: 1. If you own just one property;2. you are the full-time occupant of the home;3. you use your home mainly for residential purposes (60% of the time or more);4. you struggle to pay your municipal account;5. you are a child who lives in the home of a parent who has passed away; or6. you received the house in a divorce settlement. You can apply for indigent rates relief if you earn between R4000 — R6000. If your property has a municipal value of less than R200,000, you will not pay rates after being granted indigent rates relief. If your property has a municipal value of more than R200,000, you will not pay rates on the first R200,000. How to apply for Indigent Support from the City of Cape Town: 1.  Download the Application for Indigent Support on the City's website or collect the form your nearest walk-in centre. You will need the following documents with your application: 1. Proof of identification (such as your ID book)2. A bank statement for the last three months or a sworn affidavit stating that you do not have a bank account3. A bond statement for the last three months or a sworn affidavit stating that you do not have a bond account4. If you have inherited the house, a copy of the estate documents If you are employed: 1. A latest salary/wage payslip or a letter from an employer stating your income;2. If you are self-employed, a sworn affidavit stating how much you earn per month; and3. proof if you receive a disability grant, maintenance grant or pension. If you are unemployed: 1. An affidavit stating that you are unemployed; and2. a sworn affidavit stating that you have no other source of income.   READ ALSO: City of Cape Town will pay for its tariff rise’ READ ALSO: Global wealth flocks to City of Cape Town TOP STORY: WATCH: See the new Huawei P20 and P20 Pro series - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE