CAPE TOWN - Swedish DJ, Tim Bergling who went by the stage name Avicii, passed away on April 20. The young DJ lived an interesting life and accumulated a substantial fortune in his electronic music career. FACTSHEET 1. Avicii was born on September 8, 1989 in Stockholm, Sweden and passed away on Friday, April 20 in Oman. 2. His electronic music career started at the age of 16 where he would post his remixes online. 3. Bergling then signed up with the Dejfitts Plays label in 2007. 4. He received a breakthrough in 2011 when his single, Levels gained the attention of thousands of electronic fans. He later received a nomination in 2013 for the Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording. His hit, Levels received a whopping 322 million views on YouTube alone. 5. He then went on to win several awards including Best Electronic, Best Swedish Act and Best Solo Artist in 2013. 6. The electronic musician purchased a staggering R190 million home in Hollywood Hills in 2013, according to Redfin. 7. In 2014 alone, the electronic musician reportedly earned R342 million. 8. Avicci reportedly had a net worth of R1.040 billion. 9. Avicii was a DJ, musician, remixer and record producer. 10. Following his tumultuous success, Avicii along with his executive producer, Ash Pournouri founded a global charity to alleviate hunger, House for Hunger in 2011. Through this drive, over 2 million school meals were distributed throughout Africa. Bergling also donated R12.2 million to Feeding America, a charity founded by a leading advocate in the food sector, John van Hengel. 11. As Avicii leaves no spouse or offspring behind, according to Swedish law, his parents may stand to inherit his fortune along with his three siblings, David Bergling, Linda Sterner and Anton Körberg; his half-brother. READ ALSO: #RIPAvicii: Celebrities pay tribute to fallen EDM artist Avicii ALSO READ: DJ Avicii's death not suspicious — police TOP STORY: The PIC - Separating fact from fiction WATCH  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE