LONDON - Prime Minister Theresa May
apologised to 12 Caribbean nations on Tuesday for immigration
officials' harsh treatment of people from those countries who
migrated to Britain as children after World War Two. The "Windrush generation" were invited to Britain to plug
labour shortfalls between 1948 and 1971, but some of their
descendants have been caught up in a tightening of immigration
rules overseen by May in 2012 when she was interior minister. Some people have been wrongly labelled illegal immigrants,
asked to provide documentary evidence of their life in Britain
they had never previously been required to keep, and in some
cases denied rights, detained and threatened with deportation. "I want to apologise to you today because we are genuinely
sorry for any anxiety that has been caused," May told leaders
and diplomats from the Caribbean countries, who were in London
for a summit of Commonwealth heads of government. The scandal over the mistreatment of people from what were
once British colonies has cast a shadow over the summit, which
is supposed to strengthen Britain's ties to fellow Commonwealth
countries as it prepares to leave the European Union. Jamaican Prime Minister Andrew Holness highlighted the issue
at a plenary session of the summit, drawing cheers from his
fellow leaders as he said the Windrush generation had enriched
Britain and contributed to society. "Now these persons are not able to claim their place as
citizens," he said. May was on stage as he spoke, having
delivered her own speech just before. Named after a ship that brought migrants from Jamaica,
Trinidad and Tobago and other Caribbean islands in 1948, the
Windrush generation enjoyed a special status, but that has been
eroded over the years by successive immigration reforms.  "NATIONAL DISGRACE" After an outcry caused by coverage in British media of
people who had lost jobs or been denied healthcare because of
unwarranted doubts over their rights, the government set up a
dedicated team at the interior ministry to solve cases. "We would also like to reassure you that there will be no
removals or detention as part of any assistance to help these
citizens get their proper documentation in place," wrote
Caroline Nokes, the immigration minister, to Caribbean foreign
ministers and ambassadors. There was confusion over whether any Windrush descendants
had already been deported after Nokes and other ministers gave
conflicting details on Monday. "We have no information, we do not know of any cases where
somebody has been deported who is in this category," Cabinet
Office Minister David Lidington said on Tuesday. David Lammy, a member of parliament from the opposition
Labour Party who has argued passionately for justice for the
Windrush migrants, tweeted that he had just received a call from
an elderly mother whose son was due to be deported on Wednesday. "This is a national disgrace," he said. "What is going (on)
makes me ashamed of our great country." Later on, Lammy tweeted again that he had received a call
from Nokes who had informed him that the deportation had been
halted and the case would be reviewed. Although the government has described the problems facing
Windrush individuals as a result of bureaucratic bungling,
critics such as Lammy have said the situation stems from the
Conservative government's hostility towards immigrants. May's six-year tenure at the interior ministry was marked by
a determination to reduce immigration numbers, a goal she has
continued to emphasise as prime minister and in Brexit
negotiations. In 2013, her ministry sent vans around multicultural
neighbourhoods instructing illegal immigrants to "Go Home or
Face Arrest". Reuters