Norristown -  A Pennsylvania jury of
seven men and five women was due to begin deliberations on
Wednesday to decide whether to convict comedian and actor Bill
Cosby of sexual assault, attempting to reach a verdict where a
previous jury was hopelessly deadlocked. Cosby, 80, the once-beloved comedian and TV dad who won over
America on "The Cosby Show" in the 1980s, is on trial on three
counts of aggravated indecent assault of Andrea Constand, 45, at
his home outside Philadelphia in January 2004. The jurors, 10 white and two black, heard closing arguments
from prosecutors and defence lawyers on Tuesday. Starting
Wednesday, they will receive instructions from Montgomery County
Judge Steven O'Neill and begin their deliberations. In his first trial last year, 12 different jurors
deliberated five and a half days but remained deadlocked. The
judge declared a mistrial, and prosecutors decided to try him
again. If convicted, Cosby, who has been free on bail, could be
taken into custody immediately or may be allowed to remain out
of jail until sentencing. He faces up to 10 years in prison under state sentencing
guidelines, although Pennsylvania law would allow the judge to
impose up to three consecutive 10-year terms, one for each
count. In all, some 50 women have accused Cosby of sexual assault
going back decades, though only Constand's case was recent
enough for criminal prosecution. She testified that the comedian drugged and raped her in
2004 and that she was terrified to tell anyone for months
afterward. As in the first trial, Cosby declined to testify on his own
behalf. He has denied wrongdoing, saying any sexual contact he
had was consensual. The first trial ended in mistrial last June, just before a
flood of sexual assault and harassment accusations against rich
and powerful men gave rise to the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements. The first trial was largely bereft of demonstrations, except
for the occasional protester outside the courthouse. In contrast
this time, outbursts and protests unfolded inside and outside
the courtroom. As Cosby approached the courthouse for the first day of the
trial, a bare-breasted protester ran toward him shouting,
"Women's lives matter." Later, when testimony began, a woman who said Cosby accosted
her when she was 17 looked directly at him from the witness
stand and blurted out, "You know what you did, Mr. Cosby." Her
break with decorum drew a swift admonishment from the judge. AP