Not a day went by that our local competitor did not publish an article, or an opinion by some editor, in Business Day, owned by Tiso. Daily Maverick jumped on the wagon, and so did amaBhungane and some radio stations, among others, all against the listing of Sagarmatha and Independent Media. Reliable sources provided Business Report (BR) with information before going to print yesterday of communication between Tiso, the JSE and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC). BR is investigating the real reasons behind the JSE’s decision not to list Sagarmatha. You must be totally stupid if you don’t ask: Why will Business Day and the Sunday Times, owned by the heavily indebted Tiso Blackstar, allow so much prominent exposure to Independent, its main competitor? Every day, even yesterday, in the Sunday Times. If you look at the sequence of events, you might come to the same conclusion as I did: Tiso had its eyes on the assets of Independent for some time. Various attempts failed. When Sagarmatha announced its listing, and stated that Independent Media, owners of The Star, Cape Times, Pretoria News, the Mercury and BR, among others, would be part of it, Andrew Bonamour, the chief executive of Tiso, armed his corporals, Ann Crotty, Tim Cohen, Sam Sole and others, to bullet the listing of Sagarmatha. Again, why? The reality is that Bonamour’s company value deteriorated at the speed of light since he took over. The easy way out is to discredit his competition, Independent Media, and its chairman, in every possible and pathetic way. When Cohen published his opinion on Friday the 13th, he played Bonamour’s trump card when he suggested that the PIC should merge the assets of Tiso and Independent. This, dear readers of BR, is proof that there is much more behind Tiso’s attempts to stop the JSE from listing Sagarmatha, which was scheduled for Friday the 13th. Should the PIC consider such a merger, it would be against all that we are fighting against in South Africa and, more specifically, at Independent Media, namely media collusion and media capture. Is Bonamour now suggesting the formation of a media cartel? Does he think that Independent would ever merge with the white-owned and managed Tiso? I cannot speak for my chairman, but I don’t think so. He fought too hard for a transformed media group to ever consider such a merger. The tactics used by Tiso against Independent are almost criminal, and
I think Independent should sue Tiso to the moon and back. I am convinced that Independent will never “merge” with Tiso. They are the ones that are heavily indebted to the banks, not Independent. Independent is solvent, and Bonamour knows that. Reality is, these guys never thought that Sagarmatha would raise the required R3billion. All along they thought that it was all dependent on the PIC’s investment. And then the big shock: Sagarmatha raised R4.2bn, without the PIC’s commitment. That was game, set and match. Unfortunately, the JSE, all of a sudden, at the last moment, found a minor technicality and decided to pull Sagarmatha’s listing. What concerns me most is that certain powerful entities signal to the world at large that they are not interested in foreign direct investment. Well, not if these investments are earmarked to transform South Africa and allow black people to create wealth. To summarise: Sagarmatha raised R4,2bn without any commitments from the PIC. Independent Media is solvent and has no bank debt. Adri Senekal de Wet is the executive editor of Business Report. - BUSINESS REPORT