CAPE TOWN - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday announced an investment conference set to take place later this year. Ramaphosa announced the conference before he attended the Commonwealth heads of government meeting. He said that the team of five will be tasked with meeting investors before the conference takes place. The task team will travel to financial centres in Asia, the Middle East, Europe and America to meet with potential investors. The main objective is to seek out investors in other parts of Africa as well. THE DREAM TEAM: Trevor Manuel File image: Trevor Manuel. IOL. South African politician, Trevor Manuel has formerly served in the government as Minister of Finance. His tenure was from 1996 to 2009. Manuel holds international acclaim as he was selected in 1994 as a “Global Leader for Tomorrow” by the World Economic Forum”. Manuel will reportedly play an influential role in leading SA’s team of investment representatives to convince investors that SA is a good investment destination.  Mcebisi Jonas File image: Mcebisi Jonas. IOL. Mcebisi, former Deputy Finance Minister of the Government of South Africa is notorious for raising corruption allegations against the Guptas. His fierce condemnation of corruption will hopefully prove to investors that SA is headed on an anti-corruption path. Phumzile Langeni Picture: Phumzile Langeni. (Redefine Properties). Phumzile is an executive chairman of a woman-led investment relations company, Afropulse Group Proprietary Limited. Langeni holds extensive experience in the economic landscape. She served as an Executive Director of Investor Relations at Atlatsa Resources Corporation until June 1, 2007. She also served as an Executive Director and Executive Director of Investor Relations of Anooraq Resources Corporation since April 2005. Her private sector knowledge will bring an added expertise to the team, along with Manuel and Jonas. Trudi Makhaya File Image: Trudi Makhaya, Picture: Etienne Creux Trudi is a businesswoman, writer, economist, entrepreneur and just recently has been appointed as Ramaphosa’s economic advisor. The new economic adviser holds an MBA and an MSc in Development Economics from Oxford University, where she studied as a Rhodes Scholar. In 2015, she founded an advisory firm focused on competition policy and entrepreneurship. Trudi has also held various management consulting and corporate roles at Deloitte South Africa, Genesis Analytics, and AngloGold Ashanti. Jacko Maree File image: Jacko Maree. IOL. Jacko was the former CEO of Standard Bank. However, he retired in 2013. He then assumed the role of co-deputy chairperson of the Standard Bank Group in 2016. He is currently chairperson of Liberty Holdings Limited and Liberty Group Limited. Maree’s knowledge of overseas business will possibly stand in good regard when Ramaphosa tries to impress foreign investors. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM 2018) which is taking place on Thursday and Friday is themed: “Towards a Common Future”. The Presidency said that the meeting of Heads of Government segment would be preceded by a Pre-CHOGM Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Meeting on April 17 to 18. "CHOGM 2018 will provide Heads of Government with an opportunity to discuss common international challenges facing the membership, including weak global trade and investment flows; 21st century security threats; increasing the resilience of small and vulnerable states facing climate change (especially its impact on oceans); and advancing the Commonwealth’s shared values and democracy, good governance and inclusivity as set out in the Commonwealth Charter," the Presidency said. The Commonwealth consists of 53 members which include 19 African members; seven Asian members; 13 members from the Caribbean and the Americas; three members from Europe; and 11 members from the Pacific. They meet every two years to discuss issues affecting both the Commonwealth members and the international community in general. The Presidency said the Heads of Government are expected to adopt an Outcome Document after the meeting, which would cover a wide range of issues which will serve as a programme of action for the organisation in the next two years. READ MORE: Ramaphosa, SA delegation off to London for Commonwealth meeting ALSO READ: Ramaphosa launches ambitious $100bln foreign direct investment drive TOP STORY: FNB launches mobile bank account, eWallet eXtra - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE