CAPE TOWN - Social networking site, Facebook on Friday announced a new tool that supports fundraising and allows users to donate to a fundraiser of their choice. The social networking site’s Head of Product for Social Good, Asha Sharma announced in its newsroom that people all over the world support various causes that matter to them. Now, Facebook will add a platform where individuals can pledge their support to a non-profit fundraiser. This new feature is the first of its kind in the US and Facebook is set to expand this tool internationally. “We’re also announcing new categories for fundraisers for personal causes so people can raise funds for more social good causes across family, faith, travel, and volunteering.In the coming weeks, we’re eliminating the platform fee on all fundraisers for personal causes, helping maximize their support”, says the post. Facebook said that they wanted to make donations easier for Facebook users. “We want to help everyone to meet and exceed their fundraising goals through matching donations. Now people who create fundraisers can pledge to match donations up to the amount they choose, from $5 to $2,500, helping them build momentum for their cause”, says the post. The new feature comes after Facebook received feedback from the Facebook community. Picture: Screengrab. (Facebook). Facebook’s fundraising tool will include various categories such as: - Family events -Religious events -Travel -Volunteering -Sport -Education -Medical -Crisis relief Facebook said that in coming weeks, it will eliminate the platform fee on all fundraisers for personal causes, in order to maximise their fundraising support. However, there will still be a small fee involved for payment processing and taxes. “We know people care a lot about the organizations and causes they support. We’re grateful for their passion and for the feedback that helps us build better tools to help them reach their fundraising goals”, concluded Sharma. To donate to a fundraiser, Facebook users can simply visit the fundraiser page on Facebook or alternatively select the Fundraisers bookmark on the Facebook app. Then, users can select the cause they would like to donate to, state why it is important to them and follow the steps to set up their goal. READ ALSO: Facebook results beat expectations, rakes in R148 billion ALSO READ: Facebook’s lesson on being ‘priced for perfection’ TOP STORY: Meet the billionaire who wants people of his beach  WATCH VIDEO: HERE  - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE