CAPE TOWN - KPMG South Africa has announced the appointment of Prof Wiseman Nkuhlu as Chairman of the Board and Ansie Ramalho as Independent Director on the Board. The company hopes that these two new appointments will assist in marking further progress in strengthening the governance and leadership of the firm. Both individuals will assume their roles, effective 1st March 2018. Prof Nkuhlu has over 30 years' experience working  in both the public and private sectors. He has served as a board director and as part of the audit committee at a wide range of leading public listed companies. He was the Chairman of New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), Chairman of the Development Bank of Southern Africa, President of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA), and Africa’s only representative of the Global Financial Crisis Advisory Panel established jointly by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to advise on the accounting standards setting implications of the Global Financial Crisis. He is currently Chancellor of the University of Pretoria. Ramalho is an authority on corporate governance with both theoretical and applied knowledge of the topic. In addition to serving as professional non-executive director she consults, writes, teaches and presents on the various aspects of corporate law, directors’ duties and corporate governance. Ramalho was the appointed Institute of Directors in Southern Africa’s (IoDSA) King IV Project Lead with responsibility for the successful finalisation of the King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016. Her prior position at the IoDSA was that of Chief Executive. Nhlamu Dlomu, CEO of KPMG South Africa, said: “I am delighted and humbled to announce these appointments. Prof Nkuhlu, as the first black Chartered Accountant in the country, has dedicated his life and his career to the role of the profession in supporting South Africa’s economic progress and transformation agenda. As an authority on corporate governance and the King IV Project Lead at IoDSA, Ramalho's expertise will also be invaluable to the Board. Prof Nkuhlu and Ramalho will add an external perspective and bring a huge amount of relevant experience, wisdom and challenge as we make the critical decisions required to rebuild the firm.” Commenting on his decision to join KPMG South Africa, Prof Nkuhlu said: “I am honoured to become KPMG South Africa’s Chairman. This is a defining time for our country and I believe our profession has a unique and vital role to play. As the firm rebuilds, I am confident that the reforms the leadership team is driving will mean that KPMG once again plays a leading part in ensuring that our economy is well run. I am determined that we do this by always providing our clients with service to the highest professional standards.” Ansie Ramalho added: “I look forward to using my experience to help KPMG as it looks to become industry leaders on corporate governance. All professional services firms need to ensure they have governance in place that is able to deal with the growing complexity of oversight and management.” -BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 