CAPE TOWN - A number South African universities have adopted the 8% tuition fee increment for 2018. There are some universities that have not yet announced their decision on whether they will incur the 8% increment in this academic year. In December 2017, President Jacob Zuma announced a zero increase in tution fees for students from households earning up to R600 000 a year during the 2018 academic year. Universities South Africa has granted universities an 8% increase for 2018. The University of Cape Town has published its tutition fee increment, incorporated with an 8% increase. According to BusinessTech, the University of KwaZulu Natal’s fee schedule for 2018 reflects similar prices to 2017, showing that it decided to keep rates fairly flat. Some changes are present, though, with the approximate costs of an engineering degree rising – while the cost of a BCom have dropped. The University of Johannesburg is believed to have kept fees the same as of 2017. Only 14% of UJ students will be affected by the 8% fee increment - these are students above the R600 000 per annum threshold. The University of Pretoria is reportedly implementing the 8% increment just like UJ. ALSO READ: The NSFAS free higher education factsheet Meanwhile, the University of North West has not yet published its fee schedule for 2018. According to Rhodes University, tuition and residence fees would be adjusted by 8% in 2018 to cover inflation. The Deputy Minister for Higher Education and Training, Buti Manamela said that deserving students will receive free education. Manamela had visited the University of Walter Sisulu in Mdantsane and Buffalo City TVET College - a day before Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the January 8 statement in East London. ALSO READ: #FeesCommission: Free higher education for all not feasible – report Manamela affirmed that Zuma's announcement was not made haphazardly, but was researched by the higher education, finance, science and technology and state security departments after the Heher Commission had completed its investigation on the matter. Top story: Jacob Zuma's list of demands if he steps down - Report BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 