The discovery of a fifth limited population of the Hewitt's ghost frog in South Africa has seen their IUCN status drop from critically endangered to endangered. But they are far from out of the woods. Amphibians face the threat of extinction more than most other species, which is even more jarring when one learns how long they have been here. The ghost frog is a perfect example, first emerging 160 million years ago - 10 million years before birds took flight. Forest plantations are established in green belts that favour tree crops, making forestry companies the custodians of South Africa’s natural heritage. In 1988, distinct colonies of these rare creatures were found across South Africa. They are in real danger of disappearing due to the conditions caused by logging. Until 2009, ghost frog colonies were found in just four perennial rivers - the Geelhoutboom, Martins, Klein and Diepkloof - that weave through the Elandsberg Mountain Range in the Eastern Cape. The more recent discovery of a fifth colony in the Cockscomb Mountains, also in the Eastern Cape, has improved the ghost frog’s odds for survival. But it is still at serious risk of disappearing, leaving no room for complacency. MTO Forestry has been introducing and improving practices on its plantations to help preserve the Hewitt's ghost frog’s habitat. The discovery of a new colony reaffirms the need to look after these rare animals. MTO Group chief executive Lawrence Polkinghorne said it remained committed to finding ways to minimise its impact on the environment. “We continue to monitor our actions and will as far as possible adapt our practices to improve habitats of keystone species.” In 1999 MTO commissioned and funded several studies to establish the health and situation of these ghost frog colonies. Since then it has evolved a set of practices that minimise the impact on the frogs and boost their numbers. These actions include: * Drastically reducing activities around river zones during the ghost frog’s breeding season. * Prohibiting any new roads from being built near river systems. * Preparing road surfaces before harvesting activities to ensure a minimum amount of silt run-off, which can stagnate breeding. * Establishing buffer zones around rivers and using only frog-safe chemicals to remove invader plants - blanket spraying is no longer allowed near rivers. * Careful co-ordination and planning of both harvesting and de-weeding to maintain stable environments and avoid erosion that gunks up rivers. * Educating employees and contractors about the frogs and the efforts to secure their environments. * Conducting ongoing studies and monitoring of the frog colonies. * Submitted by MTO ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus