Now Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli and his wife, Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma, have locals excited as their extended honeymoon celebrations have reached Cape Town, where he is leading his team on their South African tour - including one match in Durban. Still in post-wedding celebratory spirit, the two, affectionately called “Virushka”, have been snapped dancing on the streets of Cape Town, shopping and touring.  The men in blue and gold are today playing against the Proteas at Newlands in Cape Town, but it's likely all eyes will be on Sharma cheering from 
the stands. Described as the Beckhams of India, the two married early in December in a private ceremony in Italy. Sharma was dressed in a pale pink lehenga with renaissance embroidery with gold metal, pearls and beads, echoing Bollywood glamour - much like her famous roles in Pillauri and her first movie with Shahrukh Khan, Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi. A snowy honeymoon followed in Europe, and thereafter a few whirlwind reception parties with India’s high society, including well known Bollywood family the Bachans. Celebrity watchers have been obsessed with the antics of the couple, including their penchant for identical social media posts such as those of their wedding day and images from Cape Town.  Soon after they tied the knot, both tweeted: “Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans and well-wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey.” And for the New Year, they again posted: “Wishing you all a very happy, healthy and prosperous New Year. Love and light to all.” Just this week, Kohli was caught on camera wearing his wedding ring on a necklace during practise sessions, earning him praise for his husband-worthy actions. When Sharma was spotted shopping at an outlet with a 50% sale, Twitterverse said even a rich Bollywood actress could not help being lured by a sale. Kohli recently tweeted: “Cape Town is such a beautiful place anyway, and even more beautiful with my one and only,” earning him even more husband brownie points. According to reports, the two had been dating for several years after becoming good friends when filming a commercial together in 2013, starting the fairytale romance. Kohli will arrive in Durban just before the team's one-day international match on February 1, but Sharma is not expected to be part of the crowd because she is expected to be back in Mumbai, India, for the marketing and promotion of her latest movie, Pari, set for release early next month.  THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY