Washington - US President Donald Trump on
Saturday rejected an author's accusations that he is mentally
unfit for office and said his track record showed he is "a very
stable genius." Michael Wolff, who was granted unusually wide access to the
White House during much of Trump's first year, has said in
promoting his new book that Trump is unfit for the presidency. Trump, in a series of morning tweets, said his Democratic
critics and the US news media were bringing up the "old Ronald
Reagan playbook and screaming mental stability and intelligence"
since they have not been able to bring him down in other ways.    Reagan, a Republican who was the US president from
1981-1989, was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 1994 and
died in 2004. "Actually, throughout my life, my two greatest assets have
been mental stability and being, like, really smart," said
Trump.    "I went from VERY successful businessman, to top T.V. Star
... to President of the United States (on my first try). I think
that would qualify as not smart, but genius ... and a very
stable genius at that!"    Trump made the comments from the presidential retreat at
Camp David, Maryland, where he was meeting Republican
congressional leaders about their legislative agenda for the
year. Wolff's book, "Fire and Fury - Inside the Trump White
House," has proved to be another shock to the system for Trump
and his top aides, coming just as he starts his second year in
office. Wolff told BBC Radio in an interview broadcast on Saturday
that he believed Trump is unfit for office. He told NBC News on Friday that White House staff around
Trump treated him like a child. “The one description that everyone gave, everyone has in
common — they all say he is like a child," Wolff said. "And what
they mean by that, he has a need for immediate gratification.
It’s all about him. "This man does not read, does not listen. He’s like a
pinball, just shooting off the sides." Trump is to undergo at physical examination on January 12, the
first of his presidency.   Reuters