In his 1952 book, Black Skin, White Masks, Frantz Fanon wrote that racism originated in Europe. Fanon continued: “At the risk of arousing the resentment of my coloured brothers, I will say that ‘the black is not a man’.” In this statement Fanon is not arguing that black people are inhuman. Instead, he is making the point that Western ideas of humanity have been built on the foundation of anti-black racism. “Man” is supposedly a universal term, but the image of “man” created in Western culture is white. In other words, in racist societies only white people are human and people of colour are instead “other” to human, or beasts and animals. Black people don’t even get to be considered human in racist societies. That’s what it means to say “the black man is not a man”. “Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable called cognitive dissonance. Read: Trump on 'sh*thole' remark: 'That was not the language used' And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalise, ignore and even deny anything that doesn’t fit in with the core belief.” The quote above from Black Skin, White Masks describes how white people react when it is proven to them that white superiority is a myth, as the PAC’s founding president, Robert Sobukwe, said in his 1959 inaugural address. I wonder why Fanon’s Black Skin White Masks was not made required reading in schools in South Africa after 1994. Sobukwe’s speeches and the 1970 interview with Gail Gerhard should also have been made required reading in schools. I guess it depends on the state of mind of those who were handed a crown without the jewels in 1994. Also read: 'As someone from South Sh*thole, I'm offended, Mr. President' A noted white historian, Basil Davidson, wrote in 1987: “The racism that we know was born in Europe and America from the cultural need to justify doing to black people, doing to Africans, what could not morally or legally be done to white people, and least of all to Europeans. To justify the enslavement of Africans, in short, it was culturally necessary to believe, or be able to believe, that Africans were inherently and naturally less than human but were beings of a somehow sub-human, non-human, nature. That was the cultural basis, in this context, of the slave trade and of the modern imperialism in Africa which followed the slave trade. “The consequence of this need to condemn Africans as less than human - and how otherwise justify enslaving and then invading them? - have been many and various. Among these consequences, logically enough, has been a denial of the Africans’ possible possession of histories of their own, and thus of common humanity with other peoples elsewhere. Not surprisingly, this denial began to be heard from eminent spokesmen (such as Hegel in 1830) in Europe as soon as Europe’s modern imperialism imposed a corresponding need to structure and systematise its attitudes to overseas conquest and imperialist enclosure.” Dr Cheikh Anta Diop wrote: “Imperialism, like the prehistoric hunter, first killed the being spiritually and culturally before trying to eliminate it physically. The negation of the history and intellectual accomplishments of black Africans was cultural, mental murder, which preceded and paved the way for their genocide here and there in the world.” This article raises the issue of the dehumanisation of Africans in order to demonstrate that, even in their brutal assassinations of African leaders, Western leaders and their spy agencies convince themselves that “the black man is not a man”. On January 17, 1961, Africa lost one of its greatest sons, Patrice Lumumba, the first prime minister of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo. On January 20, 1973, Amilcar Cabral of Guinea-Bissau was assassinated in Conakry, Guinea. On February 3, 1969, Dr Eduardo Mondlane, the founder in 1962 of Frelimo and Samora Machel’s predecessor, was assassinated by a parcel bomb in Dar es Salaam. On February 21, 1965, Malcolm X succumbed under a hail of bullets at the Audubon Ballroom in Harlem, New York. On February 1, 1974, Onkgopotse Tiro, a young Black Consciousness Movement leader, was assassinated by a parcel bomb in Gaborone, Botswana. On February 27, 1978, the founding president of the PAC, Robert Sobukwe, died of what PAC members believe was a cancer-induced disease. On February 7, 1986, renowned scholar Cheikh Anta Diop died in his sleep in Senegal. According to Karl Evanzz’s The Judas Factor: The Plot to Kill Malcolm X - based on more than 300000 declassified CIA and FBI documents - Lumumba was killed for his country’s resources and for fear by Dwight Eisenhower’s administration that Lumumba could expel the Rockefeller and Morgan families who controlled the Congo’s economy by virtue of their joint monopoly of the banking system. Lumumba’s trouble began the day that he and Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana signed an agreement they regarded as another step toward the creation of the United States of Africa. A year earlier, Nkrumah had signed an agreement with Sekou Toure of Guinea, asking their respective parliaments to ratify a similar agreement. This is blatant white supremacist arrogance of thinking that another man has not the right to do what he pleases with his country’s resources and to decide the destiny of his country. This is what Fanon refers to when he says in racist societies a black man is not regarded as human. Africa was regarded as a big zoo which one of them recently described as a “s***hole”. But they are after the minerals and other resources that come from that “s***hole”. They kill and die for the minerals that come from that “s***hole”. Who would believe that the CIA contracted the Mafia and criminals such as Belgian national Colonel Carlo Huyghe to execute Lumumba? They hired thugs to kill a head of state. Huyghe hired three more mercenaries to help him kill Lumumba: William R Brown of Great Britain, Colonel Julien Gat of Belgium and Captain Ruys. Godefroid Munongo plunged a bayonet into Lumumba’s chest while his hands were tied behind his back. Huyghe put the barrel of his gun against Lumumba’s head and blew his brains out. This is the man who lived in South Africa for about 50 years and was exposed by the Mail & Guardian a little over five years ago, if my memory serves me well. The ANC government helped harbour this criminal. Lumumba’s aides, Maurice Mpolo and Joseph Okito, were also killed. Lumumba’s body was placed in a vat of concentrated acid supplied by the CIA and it has never been found. Britain’s MI6 spy agency and the Belgian government are accomplices in the demise of Lumumba. The UN secretary-general at the time, Dag Hammarskjöld, was privy to the plot against Lumumba and did nothing to protect him. He would later die in a mysterious plane crash. Africans must avenge the deaths of their leaders and protect our genuine leaders and the continent’s resources from rapacious Europeans and their kith and kin in the US. All those who collaborate with foreign powers must be prevented from leading their countries and the continent. Let every nation live by the sweat of their brow. We must determine our destiny. * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent