Congratulations Class of 2017 you've made it through the hard part. We hope you are enjoying your well-deserved break. As far as your results are concerned, don't worry we've got your back. Click here to sign up to receive your matric results via email to share instantly with family and friends and on social media. But wait there's more! We are offering amazing prizes to matric students who sign up with us. How it works: Go to https://matrics.iol.co.za/ Fill in the sign-up form, including your exam number. This is your entry into the draw to win a Dell laptop or up your street cred with a R2 000 Jack Lemkus voucher. Once the results are out, we will notify you via email. Then log in to see your exciting news, and share with your family and friends, and post to Facebook and Twitter. According to the Department of Basic Education, the matric results will be available on January 5 for National Senior Certificate pupils except those in the Western Cape  and on January 6 for Western Cape pupils. Our Matric Results website also has some great advice to deal with adulting after matric. For pupils, parents, teachers and other interested parties, we will break down the results, analyse and compare. And of course, celebrate the success stories of the Class of 2017! So come on: Step Into Your Future in Style! Competition Rules: The Matric Results sign-up competition will run until January 4. Winners will be notified in January. IOL is 100% committed to protecting your privacy. We use the information collected to enable you to enjoy the prize draws on the website. When you enter a competition with us, we ask for your name, email address and mobile number. We use this information to manage the prize draws. We use email addresses to notify winners to let them know they have won a prize. We use the mobile numbers provided in order to contact the winner and for prize delivery. Competitions are only open to people residing in South Africa. The winners names will be published on our social media pages. Employees of Independent Media, the sponsors & their agents, or any company associated with the competition & their immediate families are not eligible to enter. • Prizes are not transferable or redeemable for cash. •  The judge’s decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. •  Receipt of entries will not be acknowledged. • The entrant accepts that entry to the competition does not constitute a contract or any form of legal commitment between the entrant and the IOL.