Jalalabad, Afghanistan - Militants stormed
an office of the Save the Children aid agency in the Afghan city
of Jalalabad on Wednesday and battled security forces who
surrounded the building, wounding at least 11 people, officials
said. The attack began with a suicide car bomb outside the office,
followed by gunmen entering the compound and battling Afghan
special forces, a spokesman for the government in the eastern
province said. "There was a blast and the target was Save the Children,"
said spokesman Attaullah Khogyani. "Attackers entered the
compound and the fight is going on." The director of the provincial health department said 11
wounded people had been taken to hospital. "An explosion rocked the area and right after that children
and people started running away," said Ghulam Nabi, who was
nearby when the bomb exploded. "I saw a vehicle catch fire and
then a gunfight started." There was no immediate claim of responsibility but the
Taliban, seeking to reimpose Islamic rule after their 2001
ouster, issued a statement denying involvement. There are several other aid groups and government offices in
the immediate area, and security forces evacuated people from
surrounding buildings while they exchanged fire with the
militants. "We are devastated at the news that our Save the Children
office in Jalalabad city, Afghanistan, came under attack this
morning as armed men entered the building, about 9 a.m. today
local time," a Save the Children spokesperson said in an emailed
statement. "Our primary concern is for the safety and security of our
staff. We are awaiting further information from our team and
cannot comment further at this time." Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar province, on the
porous border with Pakistan. The province has become a stronghold for Islamic State,
which has grown to become one of Afghanistan's most dangerous
militant groups since it appeared around the beginning of 2015. Backed by intensive U.S. air strikes, Afghan forces have
claimed growing success against the Taliban and other militant
groups, including Islamic State, but militant attacks on
civilian targets have continued, causing heavy casualties. The attack in Jalalabad came just days after Taliban
militants attacked the Hotel Intercontinental in the capital,
Kabul, killing at least 20 people, including 13 foreigners. The attack underlines how difficult operating in Afghanistan
has become for humanitarian aid organisations which have faced
heavy pressure from armed groups and kidnappers. In October, the Red Cross announced that it was drastically
reducing its operations in Afghanistan following attacks that
killed seven of its staff last year. Reuters