Washington - President Donald Trump,
battling a probe into his campaign's alleged ties with Russia
and struggling to sell Americans on his leadership abilities,
will take credit for US economic gains in the past year in an
address to Congress on Tuesday night. Facing a deadline on an immigration controversy and strong
Democratic opposition, Trump will also call for a bipartisan
compromise of the type that has eluded him during a turbulent
first year in office marked by partisan battles. Trump will visit Capitol Hill to deliver his first State of
the Union speech at 9:10 p.m. (04.10 am SA time on Wednesday). Aides said the Republican president would use the televised
speech to tout the benefits of a tax overhaul approved by the
Republican-controlled Congress in December that was his first
major legislative victory. "The economy will be front and center," White House
spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told NBC News on Tuesday. The atmosphere in the House of Representatives chamber where
Trump will speak could be tense. Several Democratic lawmakers
have said they would boycott the event. Some Democratic women
who will attend plan to wear black in support of the #MeToo
movement against sexual harassment. Ahead of Trump's speech, Republicans and Democrats were
deeply divided over immigration. Lawmakers are facing a Feb. 8
deadline to reach a compromise on the issue and pass a new
budget measure to avoid a second government shutdown. To attract Democratic votes for an immigration deal, Trump
has said he is open to letting "Dreamers," a group of immigrants
brought into the country illegally as children, stay in the
United States. In return, he has demanded funding for a wall on the border
with Mexico and measures to curb family sponsorship of
immigrants, proposals that have failed to gain traction with
Democrats in the past. US Senator Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate,
said so far the two sides had made little progress in bridging
differences on immigration. "We didn't agree on anything," Durbin said after a meeting
with Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill on Monday.  Russia probe Trump will also promote a $1.7 trillion plan to rebuild
America's aging roads and other infrastructure, but he is not
expected to offer many details. He will speak at a time when he is being buffeted by a
drumbeat of headlines about U.S. Special Counsel Robert
Mueller's investigation into whether Trump or his aides colluded
with Russia during the 2016 presidential election. US intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia
interfered in the campaign using hacking and propaganda to
attempt to tilt the race in Trump's favor. Russia has denied
meddling. Trump has denied any collusion with Russia and has
called the Mueller’s investigation a "witch hunt" and "hoax." Americans, at the same time, are voicing concerns about
Trump's fitness for office. His job approval ratings are about
40 percent, an alarming number with congressional elections in
November that will determine whether Republicans maintain
control of the U.S. Congress. "We hope the president focuses on economic growth and
accomplishments and leaves out the drama," said Republican
strategist Scott Reed. Trump is expected to address the various global crises that
have persisted during his watch, such as North Korea's nuclear
challenge and Iran's clout in the Middle East. His drive for more reciprocal trade with China and other
countries is expected to be a dominant theme. Trump has so far
been unsuccessful in lowering U.S. trade deficits around the
world. Reuters