Dakar - The African
Union on Friday urged Mauritania to make a greater effort to
eliminate slavery after the country handed out lenient sentences
to a family of slave owners in a landmark conviction. Said Ould Salem and his brother Yarg were born into slavery
in the West African nation and forced to work every day from an
early age by a wealthy family, campaigners said. Their owner was found guilty in Mauritania's first ever
prosecution for slavery in 2011, but was sentenced to only two
years in prison while the law required five to ten years, said
UK charity Anti-Slavery International. He has yet to be jailed, pending appeal, and other members
of the family walked free, the campaign group said. In a statement published online, the African Union (AU)'s
Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child said
that all members of the family should be given sentences
commensurate to their crimes. Mauritania should also "give due regard to the issue of
slavery and make the elimination... one of its priorities," the
pan-African body said. "This verdict puts a lot of pressure on Mauritania to take
slavery seriously," said Jakub Sobik, a spokesman for
Anti-Slavery International. The AU also recommended that Said and Yarg, now teenagers,
receive psychosocial support, schooling and compensation. Mauritania was the last country in the world to abolish
slavery in 1981, and has one of the highest rates of slavery in
the world, with 1 in 100 people living as slaves, according to
the 2016 Global Slavery Index. Slavery is a historical practice in Mauritania, where
dark-skinned ethnic groups make up the main "slave caste", often
working as domestic servants and cattle herders. A new anti-slavery law in 2015 doubled the prison term for
perpetrators to 20 years, but in its second prosecution a year
later Mauritania gave two slave owners only five-year sentences. "The problem is that there is a law criminalising slavery,
but it's not respected," said Lucy Claridge, legal director for
Minority Rights Group International, which helped bring Said and
Yarg's case to the African Union. The country is due to host two high-level AU meetings this
year, which could increase pressure, she said. "This is a fantastic decision. I very much hope that it's
taken seriously," Claridge told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Reuters