Washington - Was there ever any question about how, exactly, Trump detractor George Conway would spend Friday night? The running criticism of President Donald Trump by Conway, the husband of Kellyanne Conway, dates back to the earliest days of the administration. Since then, George Conway has become a celebrity in his own right for his Trump-bashing tweets and op-eds. And that was before Trump gained the nickname Individual-1. On Friday, as The Washington Post's Devlin Barrett and Matt Zapotosky reported, federal prosecutors offered new evidence that implicated the president in plans to buy the silence of two women Trump allegedly had affairs with as far back as 2014. The documents also spoke of Russian efforts to forge a political alliance with Trump before he became president. Trump tweeted that the investigation "Totally clears the president. Thank you!" But Conway was among the most vocal in pointing out how wrong the phrase "totally clears the president" is. "Except for that little part where the US Attorney's Office says that you directed and coordinated with Cohen to commit two felonies. Other than that, totally scot-free," Conway said on Twitter in response to Trump's tweet. For Conway, it was a particularly Twitter-winning moment. He received a marriage proposal from comedian and Trump critic Kathy Griffin and the adoration of liberals shocked they could have such tender feelings for the man married to a high-level White House adviser. Conway then proceeded to spend the rest of his Friday night focusing his Twitter on the Trump-as-potential-felon theme. He retweeted a link from satirical site the Onion: "Giuliani Insists Breaking the Law Not a Crime." He shared a Nixon-era headline "President: 'I'm not a crook,' " retweeting presidential historian Michael Beschloss's analysis: "What's old is new again." He also retweeted former acting solicitor general Neal Katyal, who said "the real news ... is about the conclusion by federal prosecutors that Donald J. Trump has committed a serious felony." And he shared a lengthier take by former assistant attorney general Jack Goldsmith: "One struggles to see how a document that alleges that such conduct took place at the direction of Individual-1 'totally clears the president.'" Even Conway's correct spelling of "scot-free" may have been a dig at Trump and his head-scratching use of the phrase "Scott Free" earlier in the week. Friday's criticism was one-sided, but it hasn't always been that way. This week, for example, the president's son Eric Trump wrote on Twitter that Conway's constant criticism of the president shows "utter disrespect" to his wife. "Of all the ugliness in politics, the utter disrespect George Conway shows toward his wife, her career, place of work, and everything she has fought SO hard to achieve, might top them all," Eric Trump wrote on Twitter. Kellyanne Conway is a "great person," he added, and her husband's actions "are horrible." As The Post's Antonia Noori Farzan reported, Eric Trump's words came shortly after Conway accused the president of witness tampering during a Monday morning tweetstorm where he seemed to be discouraging longtime adviser Roger Stone from testifying against him. But Conway's words on Friday weren't all doom and gloom and indictments and impeachment. He also included a sardonically inspiring tweet from Preet Bharara, the fired U.S. attorney from the Southern District of New York: "Inspiring reminder: In America anyone can grow up and become Individual-1."