DURBAN - 2018 was incredibly exciting for the technology sector which has seen myriad advancements. These include the fundamentals of artificial intelligence (AI) being established, robots helping around the house and consumer electronic innovations such as TVs that are so thin, they might be mistaken for windows, or paintings. 2019 promises to be another significant year as people’s attitudes are changing and technology becomes embedded in our lives. Here is a look at the biggest innovations for 2019 according to LG: AI will come of age AI has experienced a marked increase in investments and according to Forbes, 80% of enterprises are investing in AI while 30% are planning to expand their AI investments in the next three years. It’s estimated that during 2017, venture, corporate and seed investors put about $3.6-billion into AI and machine learning companies. Yes, AI has been around since the 1950s, but its consumer benefits weren’t visible until recently and 2019 will be the year when AI starts to really take off. The potential of AI is endless as this technology goes into everything from small watches to cars and even gigantic, connected smart cities. AI is also starting to find its way into appliances like TVs, washing machines and refrigerators as products adapt to human behaviour. Lightning-fast internet speeds Faster internet speeds enable quicker response times for business tools that we all rely on to get the job done. It will increase the efficiency of workers and will provide reliable communication tools for companies that rely on remote workers. The fifth generation of wireless technology will take internet connectivity to a new level as the internet of things (IoT), will bring about the potential for everything to be connected to everything. 5G creates new possibilities in numerous sectors, including medicine, transportation and manufacturing. A smarter world through IoT and AI isn’t possible without 5G’s speed and capacity as the system is able to carry large numbers of connections simultaneously. It is therefore crucial to the development of smart cities, autonomous cars and smart homes. Life-enriching smart technology Much like technological innovations, consumer habits and preferences are changing drastically when it comes to home appliances and particularly, home entertainment. Most consumers believe that advancements in home entertainment tech is life-enriching and that their life is better with the latest tech at their fingertips. The value of home entertainment tech lies in how it allows loved ones to share experiences, thereby bringing them closer together, particularly during big events such as major sporting events and holiday celebrations. The potential of flexible viewing surfaces will not only change home entertainment, but also marketing techniques in shopping malls, city centres and shop fronts. With the ability to curve around any environment, this technology creates the perfect platform for signage and consumer engagement that stands out from the crowd. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE