JOHANNESBURG – Your employees are your company’s most important asset. They are the ones tasked with serving your customers, implementing strategies and driving your teams forward to achieve their goals. According to 2018 Gallup research, however, 85 percent of the workforce is disengaged. What is a ‘disengaged employee’? They are mentally ‘checked out’ and sleepwalking through their workday without passion and energy. These workers withdraw themselves mentally and emotionally from their jobs. The economic consequences of lost productivity due to disengaged workers is estimated to be about $7 trillion (R96trln) a year, but many of the costs are difficult to quantify because these costs are often intangible and untracked. Disengaged employees often have higher rates of absenteeism, resulting in more sick days taken, and they are more likely to be actively seeking other employment.This increases the associated costs of recruitments because these employees often need to be replaced at higher rates. Employee engagement is generally measured or defined by a number of factors, including the extent to which an employee feels that his or her contribution is important and is recognised and how inspired the employee feels about the organization and the extent to which the organization can cultivate this inspiration. Whether the employee perceives a workforce within the organization, and the extent to which an employee believes that he or she is paid fairly and equitably for the jobs they do, are also things that can be tracked to measure how engaged an employee is. Turning disengaged employees into engaged employees in 3 steps   The importance of an engaged workforce can’t be overstated. Reduce staff turnover, improve productivity, retain more customers and increase your bottom line by connecting with your employees in ways that count. Deon Smit & Muhammed Goolab are with the South African Reward Association. The views expressed here do not necessarily represent those of Independent Media. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE