CAPE TOWN – The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect on May 25, 2018 with a set of rules and regulations aimed at protecting personal data held by business and organisations. WATCH:    GDPR’s purpose is to strengthen individuals’ rights over their data, in that they have enhanced rights to:  What’s the relevance for South African companies? The GDPR has extra-territorial impact in that it applies to any company dealing with the personal data of individuals residing in the EU. This is regardless of the company’s location. In other words, it is the domicile of the data subject, not of the organization storing their data, which determines whether the GDPR will apply. The GDPR may grant some flexibility to smaller companies, but in general, the GDPR is agnostic when it comes to a company’s size. The new rules give authorities the ability to levy fines of up to 4% of a company’s global revenues. The right to be forgotten One of the most prominent and complex new changes is the data subject’s “right to be forgotten”, meaning that an individual can request that a company erases his/her  respective personal data. This requires companies to have the systems and processes in place to handle such a request as well as making sure a company’s legacy data is compliant. Companies storing, handling and processing EU residents’ personal data will need to have a process in place to locate the data and comply with these requests. As most of you know, deleting a single data record that may have been copied to numerous databases, aggregated or shared with a third party may not be a simple process. Data breach notification Another major challenge of GDPR compliance is the new requirement to notify authorities of a data breach within 72 hours of its occurrence. Companies should put adequate processes and systems in place to identify what data is affected and what procedures are in place to improve internal collaboration before informing authorities. Consecutive breaches will no doubt result in higher penalties and stricter regulatory monitoring. GDPR also requires application of “privacy by design” and “privacy by default” principles to encourage data protection from the earliest stage of any project or initiative. A robust privacy check in the beginning of every project or new process is a mandatory internal requirement. Since the GDPR is not a one-off implementation, it will require a continuous risk approach. Be prepared   In closing, this new EU regulation is a further indication that the risk landscape is constantly changing and interdependence between entities in far flung jurisdictions brings new risks that were probably not foreseen until recently. This requires better response strategies to ensure that such risks are adequately managed. Kristin van Niekerk is a legal and compliance expert at Allianz. The views expressed here do not necessarily represent those of Independent Media. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE