Johannesburg - The pleas for relief efforts and help continue in Johannesburg's Alexandra township after a fire destroyed 500 shacks, leaving hundreds of people without shelter, food and clothes. Aid group Gift of the Givers said its teams were on site in the area. "Our teams are registering the rest of the victims and transporting them to a nearby hall where we are providing food, bottled water, blankets and mattresses. During the course of today further appropriate interventions will be affected," said the group. If you would like to help the victims of the devastating fire, donations should be dropped at the City of Johannesburg Emergency Management Services offices in Sandton. Donations can also be made at the Alexandra Fire Stations. "This is to ensure proper coordination, as there have been opportunists from elsewhere attempting to benefit at the expense of victims," said the City of Johannesburg Department of Public Safety. Jozi Stars have also called on cricket fans to bring donations to the Wanderers on Sunday to help those who were affected by the fire. “In line with our appeal, the Jozi Stars will be dedicating this Sunday's game against the Paarl Rocks to the people of Alexandra Township," said the team. Ride-sharing company Uber is helping others to lend a hand by going live with uberCOMMUNITY next Monday. "We would like to give everyone more time to assist and are encouraging locals to collect and package the necessary items over the weekend and then select uberCOMMUNITY on Monday between 11 am  - 3pm for a driver to collect and drop off at the Disaster Management Centre, Sandton Fire Brandweer. This will not cost riders anything," said Uber in a statement. "Let’s stand together to help the people of Alex who are currently trying to rebuild their lives." Open the App on Monday, 10 December, between 11 am - 3 pm and set your destination to the Sandton Fire Station and select uberCOMMUNITY. Once you have done that, request a vehicle. Make sure to meet your driver at your pick up point with your donations. Banking details for contributions to Gift of the Givers can be made through their website. Banking details are as follows: Gift of the Givers, Standard Bank, Pietermaritzburg, Account number 052137228, Branch Code 057525. Send deposit slip to sooliman@giftofthegivers.org for acknowledgement.