Pretoria - Members of the Incredible Happenings Ministries led by prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng on Sunday visited Alexandra in Johannesburg, assisting desperate families to rebuild their homes gutted by a devastating fire last week. Thousands of people were left homeless after at least 500 shacks were gutted by a blaze which engulfed the densely populated area on Thursday. "I was also here on Saturday, visiting this community, and I spoke to the community leader. The community leader identified three families which desperately needed help. Now I have returned to Alexandra so that I can personally help in building these shacks," said Mboro as he helped with the menial tasks of mixing concrete and carrying iron sheets. The popular preacher also held "special prayer sessions" for the victims of the blaze. The Incredible Happenings Ministries' assistance focused on child-headed families and the aged, among others.  On Friday, the African National Congress in Gauteng appealed to communities to assist the Alexandra residents following the fire. "The African National Congress Gauteng province calls on Gauteng residents to open their hearts and extend a hand of generosity to residents of Alexandra whose homes were destroyed following shack fires," provincial spokesperson Tasneem Motara said. "Any form of help that can help alleviate the impact of the destruction left behind by the blaze will go a long way. Donations of clothing, non perishable foodstuff, blankets, etc will greatly assist."  On Sunday, the Economic Freedom Fighters in Gauteng lambasted Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba and human settlements MEC Uhuru Moiloa for "the lack of measures" to shield "black and poor" communities.  "The EFF notes with dismay that the City of Johannesburg still has only 10 fire engines out of the 29 desperately needed to service the city’s 31 fire stations and over five million citizens. Black and poor residents of Johannesburg are the ones exposed to this massive safety risk and the city's turning a blind eye to the unsafe situation is viewed as anti-black [people]," said Mandisa Mashego, Gauteng EFF chairperson. African News Agency/ANA