 London - A mother is being held on suspicion of murder after her two children were found dying at their seaside home on Thursday. Police made the grisly discovery after the 37-year-old woman was pulled from the wreckage of a crash on a dual carriageway at 2.50am. Officers who drove her home found two dying children, believed to be a two-year-old girl and her elder sister. The youngsters were taken to hospital around 3.35am where doctors battled to save their lives, but both were declared dead shortly after arriving. On Thursday night their mother was being quizzed about the double deaths after being released from hospital into police custody. Neighbours said the mother had only just moved into the £215,000 property on a new-build estate in Westwood near Margate, Kent. Police were called in the early hours of Thursday morning when she crashed into the back of a lorry on the A299 near the popular seaside town of Whitstable. The mother managed to escape with minor injuries despite the impact causing her car bonnet to completely crumple. Officers drove her the 15 miles back to her Margate home over concerns for the welfare of her family. On arrival 45 minutes later they found the two children. The semi-detached property was sealed off last night as forensics teams carried a number of white evidence bags along with two pillowcases from the house. A pink bicycle could be seen lying in the hall of the property as two uniformed officers stood guard at the front door. Kent Police refused to identify the ages of the children nor confirm their sex to avoid them being identified. One resident, who asked not to be named, said she understood the arrested woman to be a single mother who had moved into the house with her two children around three weeks ago. She said: ‘I’ve heard the children are toddlers and one of them is two. We pass people round here and say hello to neighbours, but other than that, everyone keeps themselves to themselves. ‘Something like this shocks you when it’s on your doorstep.’ It is not known why the mother was travelling on the London-bound carriageway of the A299 Thanet Way in the middle of the night. She was taken to hospital with what one neighbour claimed was a broken nose, but was later discharged and taken into custody at a Kent police station. Police on Thursday night confirmed that a woman had been arrested on suspicion of murder following the deaths of two children. A Kent Police spokesman said: ‘The South East Coast Ambulance Service also attended and two young children were taken to hospital, where they were later declared deceased. ‘Police remain at the scene and a 37-year-old woman from Margate has been arrested on suspicion of murder. The woman had been involved in a road traffic collision on the A299 Thanet Way at around 2.50am and was taken to hospital with minor injuries ‘She has now been discharged and taken into custody at a police station.’ 