Each of the different processes will achieve different results. Here is a primer on what should follow, depending on how the president leaves office. In terms of the ANC’s political parlance, being “recalled” refers to the party’s national executive committee (NEC) resolving that the president step down from the position. Should the president acquiesce to the resolution, then this will be followed by the president’s resignation. A resignation in terms of the constitution, counts as a “vacancy in the office of the president”. As such, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa occupies the office of the president, assuming all the responsibilities, powers and functions of the office. The constitution further provides that a person who fills the vacancy in the office of the president merely completes the term of office of the recently deposed president, without this regarded as a term. This leaves any such interim president free to hold the office for two more terms, if so elected.  Impeachment Impeachment, or removal of the president as per the constitution, is a fault-based mechanism, dependent on a two-thirds majority support by the National Assembly. In accordance with a December decision of the Constitutional Court, the rules committee is yet to adopt final regulations regarding the impeachment of a president. The Concourt ruled that a president may only be impeached where the serious violation of the constitution or the law, serious misconduct, or inability to perform the functions of office have been established prior to the adoption of the impeachment resolution. As such, it is highly unlikely that the president can be successfully impeached before he delivers the State of the Nation address (Sona) on February 8, given that there is not yet a mechanism with which to impeach. Nonetheless, should the president face the ignominy of a successful impeachment, then as with a “recall”, the deputy president stands to thereafter occupy the office of the president.  Motion of no confidence The EFF have, in the meantime, tabled a motion of no confidence debate, which the Speaker of the National Assembly has scheduled for February 22, well after the president’s Sona. The motion in accordance with section 102(2) of the constitution, if passed by a simple majority, will remove not just the president from office, but also the deputy president, the entire cabinet, as well as deputy ministers. Thereafter, the Speaker of Parliament assumes the president’s office in an acting capacity until the members of the National Assembly elect one of their own to occupy the office of the president. This process obviously differs from the consequences flowing from a president’s “recall” or impeachment in that the deputy president will not occupy the president’s office. The deputy president will then continue to occupy his position as an ordinary MP. It will be up to the other MPs to vote him into the highest office of the land. Given a reportedly divided governing party parliamentary caucus, it is unclear who the next president will be, post the Speaker handing back the reigns, should a motion of no confidence be passed successfully. Suffice to say, any person elected president post a successful motion of confidence will complete Zuma’s term of office and still be eligible for re-election in 2019 as per the dictates of section 88(2) of the constitution.  Mbeki Solution As South Africans will remember, the president being “recalled” finds precedence in the events of 2008, when the ANC’s NEC recalled then president Thabo Mbeki. He of course chose to resign on the back of the resolution, choosing not to face the humiliation of his former “comrades” passing an impeachment vote against him in the National Assembly. The then deputy president, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, should have assumed the office of the president, but she too elected to resign from the office in sympathy with Mbeki. The members of the National Assembly then elected Kgalema Motlanthe as president to complete the remaining nine months of office left in Mbeki’s term. Thereafter Zuma was elected into office. This suggests therefore, that there is room for a compromise candidate while South Africa readies itself both figuratively and literally for the 2019 general elections. The Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete has, yet again, incurred the displeasure of the opposition parties. This, after allowing the Sona to proceed as scheduled and also tabling the no confidence motion debate after the Sona. She is not entirely at fault in this instance, given that Zuma is still the de facto president of the republic, regardless of the rumours. Ultimately, this uncertainty, coupled with a deputy president who is also president of the ANC, creates two seeming centres of power and breeds both policy and political uncertainty for the nation. It is time that the ANC took the nation into its confidence and assuaged public concerns over the occupancy of the highest office. * Phephelaphi Dube is Director at the Centre for Constitutional Rights. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus