A U.S. federal judge on Thursday set a
September 5 trial date for Joaquin Guzman, the Mexican drug lord
known as "El Chapo" who is jailed in the United States on drug
trafficking and conspiracy charges. U.S. prosecutors have accused Guzman, 60, of running a
global cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine smuggling operation
as the leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, and playing a central role
in a decade-long Mexican drug war where more than 100,000 people
have died. U.S. District Judge Brian Cogan said at Thursday's hearing
in Brooklyn federal court that potential jurors would be given a
written questionnaire on March 23 to screen them before the
trial. Cogan had ruled on February 5 that the identities of the jurors
in the case would be kept secret for their protection. Guzman's
lawyer, Eduardo Balarezo, has asked Cogan to reconsider that
ruling. Near the close of Thursday's hearing, Balarezo said that
Guzman wanted to address the court directly, in order to tell
his family to pay his legal fees. Cogan did not allow Guzman to
address the court, but did ask him whether he agreed with
Balarezo's statement. Guzman said he did, and also began to say that he wanted to
talk about his health and jail conditions, before Cogan told him
he would consider allowing him to speak at a future hearing. Lawyers for Guzman have said in court papers that his health
has deteriorated during his months in solitary confinement. Balarezo told reporters outside the courthouse following the
hearing that he had been paid part of his fee by some "friends"
of Guzman, but that Guzman had so far been unable to instruct
his family about further payments. Mexican authorities captured Guzman and an associate in
January 2016 by pulling over a Ford Focus they had stolen, after
Guzman had fled through tunnels and drains from a raid on a safe
house in northwest Mexico. Six months earlier, Guzman had escaped through a tunnel from
a high-security Mexican prison. Guzman was extradited to the
United States in January 2017. Reuters