INTERNATIONAL - Space X is set to launch a Falcon 9 rocket which will carry an Earth-observation satellite called Paz for Spain and two more satellites to test out the technology needed to receive internet from space. The launch was supposed to happen Sunday 18 February 2018 but SpaceX moved plans to launch due to performing "final checks', and rescheduled for February 21st. These 2 satellites in addition to Paz are called the Microsat-2a and Microsat-2b are set to be the first in Elon Musk’s vision to transmit internet to Earth from space. According to reports, The company with the help of Elon Musk's vision wants to create a giant constellation of nearly 12,000 satellites that will orbit  above Earth, allowing internet connectivity to antenna receivers on the planet’s surface. The idea is to create a network of satellites that ensures connectivity at all times. According to financial projections obtained by The Wall Street Journal , SpaceX 's system, called Starlink, is expected to have more than 40 million subscribers to the service by 2025. This could amount to $30 billion in revenue for the company. The project is currently under consideration by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). On Thursday, it received backing from FCC chairman Ajit Pai, who said that Starlink would be "on such innovation … to provide high-speed internet to rural Americans." The license would give SpaceX six years to deploy all the satellites, although the FCC is also looking at a petition from SpaceX to remove time limitations. Pai also added that if Space X is successful in getting the FCC approval,  it'll be a first time an American-based company in the internet-in-space race. Many companies have been participating in the race due to many people around the globe still lacking access to the internet access. CNN reported that a startup called, OneWeb, has already received approval  from the FCC to send internet satellites into orbit. READ ALSO: WATCH: SpaceX launches the world’s most powerful rocket READ ALSO: WATCH: Space X successfully launches "Zuma" TOP STORY:Atul Gupta challenges Estina court order - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE