CAPE TOWN - A technology company focusing on telephony solutions New Star South Africa are turning heads with their Platinum Partner programme.   In this programme, the company promises partners of NSN, that they will receive good service delivery, cutting-edge products, commercial support, competitive pricing, Customised service options and Earn up to 50% of the margin for the life of the customer. Within a matter of hours of the Platinum Partner event ending, NSN received two new orders for over 120 hosted seats, with another 12 leads in play. With the launch of their partner programme in the South African marketplace in August 2017, NSN has achieved phenomenal traction. The programme has proven to be a great success, with NSN SA growing from 11 to 51 partners on the day of the programme’s launch. We take a look at the company: 1. The CEO of the company is Mark Shraga and is also the co-founder alongside Nick Shraga. They have been in business for 7 years and 3months. 2. NSN was launched in the UK in 2010and is a company totally focused on growing through Partnerships hence the launch of their partner programme. 3. NSN SA has been supporting its parent company in the UK since December 2010, after which the company has seen global growth. 4. The company achieved rankings as the 49th fastest growing tech company in the United Kingdom and the 328th fastest growing in Europe, Middle East and Africa. 5. In the first quarter of 2018, the company added 70 partners to its board. 6. NSN has over 2500 customers worldwide 7. They recently celebrated becoming a £5M ( R83,694,278.50) company 8. NSN placed 49th in the Deloitte UK fast50 as the fastest growing technology company in the United Kingdom. 9. The company offers services such as Cloud, Fixed line, Mobile, Data and Broadband across the spectrum of business types from Single Office Home Workers through to Multi-National Corporations. 10. NSN has won the award for the Best Customer Service performance at the recent Comms National Awards event in 2017. Here is an image showing their global reach:  READ ALSO: Naspers and Investec battle it out over "damaging" report READ ALSO: Randgold says new DRC mining code will limit industry growth TOP STORY: REVEALED: Guptas will deny,deny, deny #StateCapture inquiry - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE