CAPE TOWN - Showers, bathtubs, flushing toilets and sinks can have an immense contribution to water wasting. The City of Cape Town Mayor, Patricial de Lille recently lauded Capetonians committed to water saving techniques, as a result Day Zero was announced to have been pushed to 12 April 2018. Here are 5 devices you could install at your home's water facilities to help push Day Zero even further forward: 1. Water saving shower rose  Photo: CTM As many people begin and end their day with a shower, homeware shops offer the water saving shower rose at a price range of R130 - R200. This allows the user to make the bathing experience more eco-friendly while promoting responsible water usage. This device comes with conserving fixed shower range including compact variable heads with up to five different intensity settings, and overhead rain-showers. Sizes range from compact to 200mm and 300mm in diameter, and are fully compatible with the shower arm range. 2. Low-flow high-efficiency faucet aerators  Photo: cleanenergyresourceteams.org A low-flow, high-efficiency faucet aerator lowers the fixture's water usage by about 4%. A standard faucet may be responsible for up to 15 percent of household water use, according to The Spruce - a website offering home tips and other lifestyle practicalities. A standard price for this device is R250. 3. Dual flush toilet converters  Photo: www.profreebies-fan.com Toilets are the biggest consumer of water in the home, using about 30 percent of the household's water. A dual-flush toilet releases about 3.7 litres of water for urine and the standard 5.6 litres for a solid waste. Its price varies from R200 and 250 depending on the supplier's quality. 4. Soaker hoses  Photo: za.pinterest.com Saving water in the garden should also be considered as important during the historic drought hitting the Western Cape.  Soaker hoses and drip irrigation systems release the water slowly and directly onto the plant's roots. A 15.2 meters can be bought at R180. This helps to reduce runoff and minimize evaporation 5. Hand sterilising dispenser Photo: zogics.com A liquid sterilising dispenser can save a great deal of what if used alternatively to water for cleansing hands before you eat and when coming out of the toilet. Since March 2017, the City’s water and sanitation department has introduced various initiatives to lower water demand, including advanced pressure reduction to lower the rate at which water flows, and the installation of water meters to reduce consumption. A touchless electronic senitiser costs R1100, while the pressed device costs R800. "We will continue with these initiatives over the next few weeks to extend our water supply for as long as possible," the City said in statement. In the event that the that the dam levels reach 13,5%, the City will begin to shut down the reticulation system, except to key commercial areas and institutions such as hospitals. Once this happens, residents will be able to access water from collection points across the City. Each resident will be allocated 25 litres of water a day. There will be separate sections for pedestrian and vehicle access, as well as access for those collecting on behalf of vulnerable groups. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE