New Delhi - A ceremonial reception, wide-ranging talks and a
bear hug marked Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's penultimate
day in India, a visit that has been dogged by controversy over the
issue of Sikh extremism and alleged fashion faux pas. "We discussed many issues including defence cooperation. Terrorism
and extremism are a threat to countries like ours and to fight these
elements it is important for us to come together," Modi said. In what was seen as a direct reference to Canada's stand on Sikh
extremists, Modi said: "There should be no space for those who misuse
religion for political motives and promote separatism." Canada is home to a large population of Sikhs and some of them are
members of Trudeau's cabinet. Indian authorities say some fringe
groups in Canada support the revival of a movement for an independent
Sikh state called Khalistan to be carved out of India's Punjab state. Trudeau apologized Thursday for a dinner invitation to a Khalistan
supporter and convicted Sikh extremist by the Canadian High
Commission that was ultimately rescinded. The seven-day trip has also been generating bad publicity due to
suggestions in the media that the Trudeau entourage was being given a
lukewarm reception by the Indian government with hardly any senior
leaders attending his various engagements across the country. Eyebrows have also been raised by the Trudeau family's photo-ops - he
is accompanied by wife Sophie Gregoire and their three children - in
which they do the folded-hand namaste pose while wearing
colour-coordinated, glitzy versions of traditional Indian attire. "Also FYI we Indians don't dress like this every day sir, not even in
Bollywood," former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah
posted on Twitter. "Even if Trudeau was an Indian groom at his wedding reception he'd
look ridiculously overdressed," said another tweet by columnist
Shivam Vij, after Trudeau turned out in a gold brocade outfit at a
reception in Mumbai where he rubbed shoulders with Bollywood stars
mostly clad in black. Friday, however, began on a positive note with a hug between Modi and
Trudeau in the forecourt of the majestic presidential palace followed
by a guard of honour for the visitor. The two leaders discussed trade, energy, education, health care, IT,
start ups, science and technology, defence and security, tourism and
people-to-people contacts, Ministry of External Affairs spokesman
Raveesh Kumar said. The delegation-level talks were followed by the signing of six
memoranda of understanding in areas ranging from energy and
information technology to education and sports. Trudeau said economic cooperation between the two countries held out
great potential, especially for job creation in Canada. On his week-long trip Trudeau visited the Taj Mahal in Agra,
Ahmedabad in Gujarat, the Golden Temple - the holiest shrine of the
Sikh faith in Amritsar in Punjab state - and India's financial hub
Mumbai. He is scheduled to leave on Saturday. dpa