JOHANNESBURG - Entrepreneur Glynn Mashonga, owner of GlobeScope Security Solutions, says she wants to break boundaries in South Africa's business space and disrupt the male-dominated security sector.  GlobeScope Security Solutions was established in 2012 and is based in Cape Town. The company provides and instasl security and surveillance solutions, such as fingerprint access systems, CCTV cameras, alarms, intercoms and guard systems for personal computers.  Mashoga says she was motivated to start her business after working for a security company for many years. But she says it has not been an easy journey.  "I had reached a glass ceiling. I felt there wasn't room for me to grow anymore. But I persevered and showed that I was experienced with the physical work, such as drilling and installing security system," she says.  WATCH:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mashonga says getting the company to where it is now was not easy. There were many challenges, especially as this field is male dominated.  "I had to work twice as hard because clients and banks were skeptical about the quality of work I could deliver. They have learnt to trust me to deliver quality security products that give them peace of mind."  Mashonga has been running her electronic security installation business successfully for the past six years and has created 15 permanent jobs to date.  She says her company has provided sophisticated electronic solutions for clients such as Absa Bank, insurance services firm Hollard, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, the University of the Western Cape, and Western Cape College of Nursing.  The highlight of running such a company and being a businesswoman for Mashonga has been receiving positive feedback from her clients.  Mashoga was awarded with a certificate for successfully completing the Eskom contractor Academy accredited course. She heard about the about the academy when her company  competed and became the finalist in the Eskom Development Foundation Business Investment Competition (BIC) in 2015. - African Agency Agency (ANA)