As a teenager, I couldn’t understand why people were excited about voting for Ntate Jacob Zuma, the incumbent president of the country. This was subsequent to his being voted as the ANC’s president in Limpopo
in 2007. I was young, yes, but I knew from the Bible story that Jacob was a supplanter, which means to trip up or overthrow. So, when I heard that Ntate Zuma had won, I thought he had overthrown Ntate Thabo Mbeki. Because, to the oblivious me, that is what the Jacobs do, Bible
or not. But as I read more about Ntate Zuma, I discovered that he had 783 criminal charges that were hanging over his head, which were later lifted as he made his way to the Union Buildings. However, what did not make sense to me was this: how did the governing party’s members at the Polokwane elective conference come to the conclusion that this man would be our leader? It baffles me even now that they saw it befitting to make him the leader of the party and the country. Was it ignorance or was it that logic and politics don't go together? Personally, I feared having a leader who didn't complete Grade 12. Excuse the ignorant young man I was. Secondly, I couldn’t live with the red flags that said where there is smoke there is fire. Then things started to happen under Zuma’s leadership - the upgrades to his home at Nkandla and state capture being two of the highlights of his presidency. On the other hand, post the 54th national conference of the ANC, I am still not sold on the governing party. Ntate Cyril Ramaphosa does not give me full confidence to vote for the ANC next year. The ANC’s national chairperson, Gwede Mantashe, said something that really disturbed me. He said: "We have elected a president who is rich. We have a president who has money and is wealthy and will not be tempted to steal. He is the president of the ANC.” This was a direct swipe at Zuma. Anyway, who said that having money is a guarantee that you won't steal from the poor? If that were the case, the opposite could have happened; Ntate Zuma would have known better than to steal from those who lack, since he himself grew up without wealth. Almost 10 years later, and I am faced with a similar predicament. Today, however, I am labelled a few things, such as a "clever black", a "woke millennial" and "black middle class". I would also like to think that in as much as I am no political expert, nor have I played any significant political role in my community and beyond, I do know that politics is a huge part of my everyday life. So, after snubbing the ANC for two consecutive general elections, would I see them as deserving of my vote come 2019? I don’t know. 2019 is fast approaching. As far as things stand, the DA is definitely not getting my vote, while the EFF is not showing signs of readiness to govern, but rather to continue to be an opposition. Maimane’s epic failure to fire Helen Zille is the greatest and most unforgivable thing ever to be done by the leader of a party that a young black man like me still questions its place and relevance in my life. My vote in the last two elections did not go to the governing party. Question is, is the ANC of 2019 reason enough for me to vote for it? Let’s see if their year of Nelson Mandela brings in some Madiba magic to mesmerise me.  * Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement (YMM). Email kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter: @KabeloJay; Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Star