CAPE TOWN - MTN warns that yet another scam is currently doing its rounds where customers are being called and asked for their one-time pin (OTP), which fraudsters use to buy data or airtime from the customer’s accounts. READ ALSO: MTN expects earnings to bounce back 20% after Nigerian losses The company says once the airtime or data is bought fraudsters will then transfer it to other numbers. This activity is a scam and it is NOT part of any MTN promotion. Users should be aware that MTN will never contact a customer via text, email or telephonically, to request access to a one time pin, or to any other personal information, notes MTN. Authentic MTN promotions are backed up by advertising on a number of channels including through broadcast and print media, at our branded stores, on billboards, in the Y'ello Trader magazine, on the MTN website and through our social media platforms. Jacqui O’Sullivan, Corporate Affairs Executive at MTN SA, said, “Unfortunately, fraudsters are everywhere and we want to be sure all our customers are protected at all times, across our entire business. Our systems are designed to safeguard our customer's information from crimes such as data theft, sim swap fraud, identity theft and others but we need all our customers to remain vigilant at all times.” MTN has recently strengthened its security with the introduction of a state-of-the-art fingerprint biometric solution. This solution is a first for the telecoms sector in South Africa. READ ALSO: MTN, Vodacom worry over Electronic Amendment Bill The biometric system is used to authenticate the identity of post-paid (contract) subscribers when they undertake a range of transactions, including applying for a new contract or an additional SIM, performing an upgrade or SIM swap and loading of chargeable value added services. “MTN aims to protect customers from fraudulent transactions that often originate elsewhere as identity theft. Any business has to stay one step ahead of these criminals at all times and at MTN, we will continue to do all we can to best protect our valued customers”, concludes O’Sullivan Should you have any concerns regarding a communication you have received, please contact 0831800, 0831809, 0831808. TOP STORY: Capitec responds to loan shark allegations - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE