DURBAN - While the Hawks remain tight-lipped about the circumstances surrounding a missing British couple and the arrest of two suspects on charges related to terrorism and abduction, the vehicle belonging to the couple has been taken to the Richards Bay police station, where it is undergoing intensive forensic investigation. It is believed blood was found in the back of the white Landcruiser. While the identities of the missing couple are known to The Independent on Saturday, they cannot be named due to the sensitivity of the case. But friends have described them as “exceptionally helpful, kind, knowledgeable, lovely people”. “They’re gentle, generous people. They walk humbly on the earth. I can’t imagine anyone wanting to harm them.” Another friend said: “The news is horrendous. It’s a terrible shock that they are out there unaccounted for.” According to a reliable source, the Hawks are working closely with Scotland Yard and the FBI on the case. The couple, who are from Cape Town, were travelling around northern KwaZulu-Natal and were last seen in the Hlobane area on February 12. Also Read: Woman attacked by five dogs while on early morning walk Their vehicle was seized last Friday at a property in Ngoye, near Mtunzini, where two suspects, Sayfydeen Aslam Del Vecchio, 38, and Fatima Patel, 27, were arrested after police swooped on the property in the remote area. Mtunzini residents said a helicopter flew overhead and police swarmed into the area. Police were seen carrying large bags of collected evidence from the house on the property. Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha said the suspects had appeared in the Vryheid Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of kidnapping, robbery and possible contravention of the Protection of Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities. Ramovha said they also faced charges of arson for allegedly burning sugar cane fields last year. Patel was previously arrested with the Cape Town-based terror accused Thulsie twins, Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee, who are currently in jail.The twins are expected to appear again in March for a formal bail application. While there is speculation that the missing British couple may have fallen victim to a hijacking, how their vehicle ended up at the Del Vecchio and Patel property remains a mystery. As the search for the missing pair continues across KZN, the case is receiving international attention. The UK government warned on its website earlier in the week: “In February 2018, two South African-British dual nationals were kidnapped. There’s an increasing threat of a kidnap throughout SA. “Kidnaps can be for financial gain or motivated by criminality.” On Friday, the British High Commission issued a statement which said: “We have updated our travel advice to include this recent incident. The safety of British nationals is our top priority. We keep our travel advice for all countries under constant review. “We update it as quickly as possible if we’re aware of an incident that might significantly affect Britons travelling or living in the area.” With regard to their disappearance, it said: “We are working closely with the South African authorities following the kidnap of two South African-British dual nationals and have offered consular support to the family. As there is an ongoing investigation, we cannot comment further.” THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY