Male/Colombo - An exiled former president
of the Maldives urged India on Tuesday to send an envoy backed
by military to release political detainees after the government
of the Indian Ocean archipelago imposed a state of emergency and
arrested two senior judges. Best known as an "A-list" holiday destination, the Maldives
plunged into crisis last week after the Supreme Court delivered
a shock ruling, quashing terrorism convictions against nine
leading opposition figures including the country's exiled, first
democratically elected president, Mohamed Nasheed. Having defied the court ruling, President Abdulla Yameen
ordered security forces to seize control of the court and arrest
the chief justice and another judge. Nasheed, who was granted asylum by Britain after the
government allowed him to leave jail for medical treatment
abroad in 2016, sought Indian intervention to resolve the
island's most serious political crisis in years. "On behalf of Maldivian people we humbly request: India to
send envoy, backed by its military, to release judges & pol.
detainees... We request a physical presence," Nasheed, who is
currently in Colombo, said in a Twitter post. He also urged the United States to block financial
transactions of Yameen's government. Since Yameen took power in 2013, his government has faced
repeated questions over freedom of speech, the detention of
opponents and the independence of the judiciary. His office said he was acting in the interest of public
safety in imposing emergency for 15 days. "The President has been compelled to declare a state of
emergency due to the risk currently posed to national security,"
the statement issued on Monday said. Located near key shipping lanes, the Maldives have assumed
greater importance after China began building political and
economic ties as part of its so-called 'String Of Pearls'
strategy to build a network of ports in the Indian Ocean region. Having historically held more clout in the islands, India
has sought to push back against China's growing influence there. India, the United States and Britain have urged Yameen to
honour the rule of law and free the detainees. Indian intervention in the Maldives would not be
unprecedented, as New Delhi sent troops in 1988 to foil a coup,
purportedly involving foreign mercenaries. The U.S. State Department said it was "troubled and
disappointed" by the state of emergency and the failure by the
president, army and police to obey ‎a lawful Supreme Court
ruling. "President Yameen has systematically alienated his
coalition, jailed or exiled every major opposition political
figure, deprived elected members of parliament of their right to
represent their voters in the legislature, revised laws to erode
human rights ... and weakened the institutions of government,"
it said in a statement. Police also detained Yameen's half-brother, Maumoon Abdul
Gayoom, who had ruled the Maldives for 30 years until 2008 and
now stands with the opposition.   TOURIST PARADISE Any Indian involvement would risk raising tensions further
in the archipelago of 400,000 people and intensify the rivalry
with China. Aside from the intervention in 1988, India has generally
tried to avoid meddling in the Maldives' internal affairs,
although it has continued to provide military and economic
assistance. The tumult comes during the peak tourism season in Maldives,
best known for its luxury resorts. China, the United States and
India have already issued travel advisories against travel to
the tropical islands. "It has affected business. We have advised our operators to
not sell Maldives packages. Thankfully our clients are back but
we are not booking any more. It's like a coup there, worse than
earlier," said Raman Singh Taneja, Managing Director, Flexi
Tours Pvt Ltd in New Delhi that sends tour packages. Tourism brought in $2.7 billion of revenue for the Maldives
in 2016. The Maldives is made up of 26 coral atolls and 1,192
islands. Politics centres on the tiny but densely populated
capital Male. Police said in a Twitter message they had arrested Chief
Justice Abdulla Saeed and another judge "for an ongoing
investigation", without giving details. They also arrested another former president Gayoom at his
residence, along with his son-in-law. Gayoom's son Faris, who
was one of the opposition figures ordered freed by the court,
was released on Tuesday, his lawyer told Reuters. Others remain in prison. In a recorded video sent to social media, Gayoom said he was
being taken to the prison island of Dhoonidhoo: "I have not
committed any crime. This arrest is unlawful. I will remain
strong, and I ask the beloved people to remain strong."  Reuters