CAPE TOWN - Following multinational technology company, Google's announcement in June last year about a new feature that will remove "intrusive" ads, users can now finally say goodbye to these ads, reports The Verge. This comes after the technology company decided to enhance user experience as ads were reportedly disrupting online experience. The built-in ad blocker will be available from today. However, Google will not remove all its ads, only those that do not conform to standards from the Coalition for Better Ads. The Coalition for Better Ads identified that ads tend to disrupt user experience and result in slow browsing. Sites will reportedly be assessed on the Better Ads Standards. They will then receive a rating of either a pass, warning or failing. How it will work is, if a site receives several violations and ignores Google's notification of these violations, then Chrome can take action by blocking ads on the site, after 30 days. READ ALSO: Google changes YouTube ad rules Ads that Google plans to block: - Pop-up ads - Auto-play video ads - Sticky ads - Ads with a countdown Meanwhile, in October last year, Google for the first time has uncovered evidence that Russian operatives exploited the company's platforms in an attempt to interfere in the 2016 election, according to people familiar with the company's investigation. The Silicon Valley giant has found that tens of thousands of dollars were spent on ads by Russian agents who aimed to spread disinformation across Google's many products, which include YouTube, as well as advertising associated with Google search, Gmail, and the company's DoubleClick ad network, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss matters that have not been made public. Google runs the world's largest online advertising business, and YouTube is the world's largest online video site. The discovery by Google is also significant because the ads do not appear to be from the same Kremlin-affiliated troll farm that bought ads on Facebook -- a sign that the Russian effort to spread disinformation online may be a much broader problem than Silicon Valley companies have unearthed so far. ALSO READ: Google ad crisis spreads TOP STORY: These 11 cities may run out of water like Cape Town - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE