Manila - The International Criminal Court
(ICC) has told the Philippines that it has begun a preliminary
examination of a complaint accusing President Rodrigo Duterte of
crimes against humanity, his spokesman said on Thursday. The complaint, which says Duterte is complicit in the
illegal deaths of thousands of Filipinos during his war on
drugs, was "a waste of the court's time and resources" and the
examination would be the end of the process, presidential
spokesman Harry Roque said. About 4 000 mostly urban poor Filipinos have been killed by
police in the past 19 months in a brutal crackdown that has
alarmed the international community. Activists believe the death
toll is far higher. Roque said he had discussed the ICC issue for two hours the
previous night with Duterte, a former prosecutor, adding that
the president is more than willing to face trial. "He's sick and tried of being accused," said Roque, an
international law expert. "He wants to be in court and put the prosecutor on the
stand." The website of the ICC, which sits in the Hague in the
Netherlands, carried no new information concerning the complaint
against Duterte. The court's office could not immediately be
reached for comment. Since it was set up in 2002, the ICC has received more than
12 000 such complaints or communications, just nine of which
have gone to trial.  PREPARED TO GO TO PRISON Duterte has dared it to bring him to trial and said he would
rot in jail to save Filipinos from crime and drugs. His tirades against the court are notorious, and include
calling it "bullshit", "hypocritical" and "useless", stemming
from one of its prosecutors saying there could be grounds for an
investigation into his bloody crackdown. He also threatened to cancel the Philippines' ICC membership
and said European lawyers were "rotten", "stupid", and had a
"brain like a pea". Police say those thousands of killings were during
legitimate anti-drugs operations in which the suspects had
violently resisted arrest. Duterte has boasted about killing
thousands of drug dealers and has told police they can kill if
they believe their lives are in danger. But his critics accuse him of incitement to murder and of
refusing to properly investigate allegations that police are
planting evidence, fabricating reports and executing users and
dealers. Duterte rejects such accusations and typically chides the
international community for listening to what his government
says are biased human rights groups that have no proof. A Philippine lawyer filed the initial ICC complaint against
Duterte and at least 11 senior officials last April, saying
crimes against humanity were committed "repeatedly, unchangingly
and continuously" and killing drug suspects and other criminals
had become "best practice". Senator Antonio Trillanes and Congressman Gary Alejano sent
a supplementary communication several months later urging an ICC
investigation, which included a list of public statements made
by Duterte that they said amounted to 'shoot-to-kill' orders. Trillanes said the examination "should jolt Duterte into
realizing that he is not above the law". Roque called the complainants "domestic enemies of the
state" and said the ICC had no jurisdiction. Pending court cases meant domestic legal processes had yet
to be exhausted, and the anti-drugs campaign was a sovereign
issue, he said. Reuters