CAPE TOWN - A new chatting app, Die With Me, allows users to enter a chatroom full of people, only when their battery life is below 5%. Released on Wednesday by Media Artist, Dries Depoorter and developer David Surprenant, the app is described as a “chatroom on your way to offline peace”. How the app works is when your battery is anything below 5%, the app will work perfectly. However, if your battery life is anything higher than 5%, Die With Me will not open its door. Once you charge your phone higher than 5%, the chatroom will automatically kick you in. The app’s creators were reportedly inspired by the experience of getting lost in a city because of a dead battery. “I think everyone with a smartphone [has experienced] this sort of situation once. As a digital artist I really wanted to do something with this feeling. Die With Me resembles a straightforward ‘90s chatroom where everyone is prompted to enter a username and then dropped into a single room. As your companions’ batteries drain, their remaining percentage is displayed next to their name - a countdown that inevitably ends with their phones going dead and logging off”, said Depoorter. Die With Me is a place where people can bond with strangers who are experiencing the same near-death phone experience. The duo said they consider the app more of an art project than a social platform. You can share the same feeling with other people,” Depoorter says. “It’s a feeling that our generation understands. The feeling of being dependent on technology.” Die With Me is seen as a reason to look forward to a low percentage. It’s a sort of society you can temporarily join which vanishes when your time is up. Although it has not been disclosed how many users the app currently has, Depoorter did however say that there is on average five people in the chat at any given time. “People are chatting very fast ... they don’t have the time to think a lot about what they are saying because they feel stressed,” Depoorter says. “People ask each other where they live, what kind of music that they like but sometimes it’s also very poetic. We already saw conversations explaining what they feel when their phone is going to die. Or people share stories to each other about situations when they had a dying phone.” On the app's future plans, Depoort said they plan to release a book which will feature the room’s conversations. READ ALSO: New App allows for women and men to give sexual consent Meanwhile, In light of the current climate and global discussion around sexual assault and misconduct being, a Dutch tech company has capitalised on the movement by launching a new app which allows for virtual sexual contracts. The company, called LegalThings is its final stages of developing a new app called LegalFlings. The app would basically allow for potential partners to virtually sign a legally binding contract which would give consent for sexual activity prior to the act. According to it's website, LegalFlings matches one's sexual preferences with that of a prospective partner, "making the do's and dont's clear to both." Essentially, the app verifies mutual consent. Consenting participants would fill out a legally binding contract, or "Live Contract" and breaking any of the aforementioned rules would be breach of contract. The app also claims to protect "spicy video's and photo's that it's users would not want to go viral. "With LegalFling, any leaking of footage is a breach of contract and easy to take to court," the website claims. And if breach in contract does in fact occur, the app claims that users can simply click a button which would trigger cease and desist letters and enforce penalty payments, making it easier to take a case to court. ALSO READ: WATCH: Messaging apps to use other than WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger TOP STORY: 'We have excess power and no money' - Ramaphosa on nuclear plan - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE