That guy who is now the chief operating officer of the SABC will forever be known as that “don’t-touch-me-on-my-studio” guy, thanks to social media - no matter what heights he might reach in his career. My own social media life has not been without incident. A chain of stores that sells Apple products took umbrage at one of my tweets when I was still new to Twitter. I tweeted that the staff at a particular branch “wouldn’t piss on your teeth if it was on fire”. Their boss called my boss. I got into trouble. The offending tweet was deleted. But I’d like to think it changed behaviour all round. For one, the staff seem less aloof these days. And at least then-colleague, the champion former editor of Personal Finance, Bruce Cameron, benefited from the episode and was bumped up the waiting list for the latest iPad. Bruce was happy but the rest of my colleagues not so much. I was the cause of a new social media policy. I crawled into my social media shell. My bosses have since eased up but I’ve changed my own behaviour on social media. So here, for those considering taking the plunge, is an idiot’s guide (I’m the idiot, not you) to a few characters in the social media zoo. Each social media platform has a personality and it’s useful to use classroom dynamics to break it down: Twitter: This platform is the kid in the class who will nail you as soon as they sense weakness. It is fierce outchea (that’s a Twitter word the cool kids use). But it’s my poison because it’s so lit. Try to avoid tweeting personal things about your family, kids or your skelmpie as journos will inevitably trawl your account if you’re the subject of a scandal. Be like: Gus Silber (@gussilber), Nechama Brodie (@brodiegal) and Lester Kiewit (lesterkk) - witty and relevant. Don’t be like: Helen Zille (@helenzille) and Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump) - although they’re great to follow - because you, the mere mortal, will get into huge trouble. Facebook: That kid in the class who reports last week’s news as if it just happened. They’ll tell folks in May that Day Zero is happening in April. Here, urban legends can pass as cold, hard facts. I can’t make any recommendations for Facebook because I don’t Facebook. Call me a cybersnob. But don’t be like Penny Sparrow! And like Twitter, it’s the first place Bongani from Carte Blanche will dig for dirt when you’re in hot water. Instagram: The quintessential cool kid of the class who everyone likes. Great for vegans because there’s no beef here. It’s my favourite social media platform and allows you to #LiveYourBestLife because no one will judge you. Just don’t allow your boss to follow you as things could get complicated. Some of the best local Instagram stars are vlogger Nadia Jaftha (@nadiajaftha) and surprise, surprise Helen Zille (@zillehelen), who shows off her great sense of humour here which few are privy to. LinkedIn: This is the kid whose mom is on the school governing body, wins all the academic awards and brings the teacher a polished apple on the daily. This is the platform where you always wear your tie because it’s where you want the chief executive of a blue chip company to look at your profile and hire you on the spot. Be like: me! (Mark Zuckerberg, please note!) If there’s one thing I have learnt while using social media, it is this: in cyberspace it lives forever. You’re publishing, so don’t tweet or post unless you’re comfortable putting the same thing in a letter or an email. And, yes, for those who drink, don’t drink and tweet/post. It’s a pleasure! * Follow more of Abarder’s musings on Twitter - 
@GasantAbarder. Weekend Argus More Sunday Slice: Being homeless is not enough reason to abandon hope I hate the babysitter label - but I only have myself to blame