CAPE TOWN – President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to announce his highly anticipated new Cabinet in the next week. These dramatic developments are based on a news report by the Mail & Guardian. The African National Congress (ANC) and in essence, the NEC will meet next week. This has added immense speculation that some of former President Zuma’s more controversial ministers may be out of a job. The Mail & Guardian, based on a number of inside sources, claim that Ramaphosa may have his new team by March 2 and his cabinet may, in fact, be quite small in comparison to Jacob Zumas' . One of the most interesting developments is that the public enterprises' department may be shut down. Ramaphosa may require that state companies report to their specific departments. For example, Eskom will report to the department of energy, Transnet will report to the transport department. Have you read: GALLERY: SA ministers who may get the boot from Ramaphosa News reports suggest that the following ministers will be affected. Ministers that may face the boot! Social Development minister Bathabile Dlamini; Water Affairs minister Nomvula Mokonyane; Co-operative Governance minister Des van Rooyen; Mineral Resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane; Public Service minister Faith Muthambi; Finance minister Malusi Gigaba. Ministers who may stay! Trade and Industry minister Rob Davies; Economic Development minister Ebrahim Patel; Science and Technology minister Naledi Pandor; Human Settlements minister Lindiwe Sisulu; Health minister Aaron Motsoaledi; Deputy Health minister Joe Phaahla. Ministers who may join cabinet! ANC NEC member Thoko Didiza; Former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu; Former deputy justice minister Thabang Makwetla; ANC MP Mondli Gungubele; Former ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa; ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu; Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan; Former finance minister Trevor Manuel; Former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas; Former tourism minister Derek Hanekom; ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe. In early February IOL reported that Ramaphosa was under enormous pressure to appoint a Cabinet that will signal his seriousness about rooting out corruption and fighting state capture. ANC insiders said the new president would appoint a new cabinet even before the Budget speech was expected to take place. Speculation was rife that he will get rid of the ministers and deputy ministers implicated in state capture. Some of the ministers linked to the Guptas looked despondent after Ramaphosa was sworn in. Read More: #SONA2018: Cyril Ramaphosa to shake up Cabinet? - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE