Kimberley - A good Samaritan was brutally attacked in another vicious assault on an elderly Kimberley resident. The victim, 70-year-old Cynthia Chaplin, is in a stable condition in high care at the Mediclinic Gariep. The assault is one of several criminal incidents in the Belgravia/Herlear area this week. It also comes shortly after the brutal attack on Piet Els and his partner, Magrietha ‘Rikkie’ Alsemgeest, on Els’ farm just outside Kimberley. Read: Northern Cape businessman and partner brutally attacked on farm Outcry over ‘barbaric farm attack’ Shocked Herlear and Belgravia residents have raised concerns about crime in the area, with residents warning their neighbours to be wary of criminal elements operating in the affluent suburb. The latest attack on the elderly resident of Aristotle Avenue on Tuesday morning, comes shortly after another resident posted a video and pictures on social media, calling for assistance in identifying an intruder found hiding in her garden in the early hours of Monday morning. A stabbing in Olympia Street earlier this week is also subject to a police investigation. At the home he shares with his wife of 47 years, Cynthia’s husband, Garry Chaplin, said on Thursday that he was running errands on Tuesday morning when the incident occurred. “Cynthia ran a soup kitchen for 22 years and is one of those people who can’t help but assist the less fortunate,” said Chaplin at the scene of the crime yesterday. “Being the person that she is, she regularly gives vagrants food and we often have visitors at the house asking for something to eat.” According to Chaplin, his wife approached her assailant, thinking that the unknown person at her gate was going to ask for food, when the incident occurred. “He asked for money, which we do not give,” he said. “As Cynthia turned to go back into the house, the attacker opened the gate, grabbed her by the throat and started punching her in the face.” Chaplin said that the suspect then made off with his wife’s handbag, containing her driving licence, bank cards, ID and around R200 in cash. “When I arrived home at about 11.45am, our domestic worker was at the gate and informed me that Cynthia had fallen,” he said. “My wife had lost consciousness and had to be assisted to the bedroom. “Fortunately, the care at Mediclinic Gariep has been outstanding and ER24 paramedics were fantastic on the scene.” Chaplin said that the doctors were satisfied with his wife’s progress but both here eyes are still badly bruised and partially closed. “Her lips are black and she sustained serious injuries to the top of her head. It does not seem that any of her teeth were damaged but her throat is painful where her attacker attempted to choke her. “There is a possibility if all tests are clear that she should be home in a day or two,” Chaplin added. “I just can’t understand why anyone would commit such a brutal attack on a 70-year-old lady for R200.” Spokesperson for Mediclinic Gariep, Denise Coetzee, confirmed that Chaplin was a patient at the hospital, adding that doctors were monitoring her recovery. “We can confirm that the patient has been sedated and is under observation in high care,” said Coetzee. “She is currently in a stable condition.” Meanwhile, a Smith Street resident posted video footage and images of a man on Facebook, requesting public assistance in identifying an “unwanted visitor”, who was armed with a knife, that her husband spotted on their premises as he was making his way to work on Monday. “At about 6.45am on Monday morning, he (the suspect) entered our property, found a spot to hide and waited for my husband to leave for work,” posted the resident. “By grace alone, his eye caught sight of the unwanted visitor while driving out the property. “My husband confronted the guy, who turned out to be armed and fearless. He came after my husband and only fled once the alarm went off.” Police are also investigating a stabbing in Herlear on Tuesday morning. “At the moment the information is still sketchy but the police are in the process of opening a case,” confirmed SAPS communication officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Dimakatso Mooi, regarding the stabbing in Herlear. “The victim is currently in hospital receiving medical attention after she was allegedly stabbed by the suspect. “As the police in the Northern Cape, we request community members to report any criminal activities happening in their area to their nearest police station or they can report on the Crime Stop Line 08600 10111.” Diamond Fields Advertiser