Hualien, Taiwan - Rescuers combed through
the rubble of collapsed buildings on Wednesday, as they searched
for about 60 people missing after a strong earthquake killed at
least five near the popular Taiwanese tourist city of Hualien
overnight. The magnitude 6.4 quake, which hit near the coastal city
just before midnight (1600 GMT) on Tuesday, also injured 243
people and collapsed four buildings, officials said. Hualien Mayor Fu Kun-chi said the number of people missing
was now close to 60, although an exact figure was not provided.
As many as 150 were initially feared missing. Many of the missing were believed to be still trapped inside
buildings, some of which were tilting precariously, after the
quake hit about 22 km (14 miles) northeast of Hualien on
Taiwan's east coast. At the city's Marshal Hotel, rescuers trying to free two
trapped Taiwanese pulled out one alive, but the other person was
declared dead, the government said. Among the injured were mainland Chinese, Czech, Japanese,
Singaporean and South Korean nationals. "This is the worst earthquake in the history of Hualien, or
at least over the past 40 years that I’ve been alive," said
volunteer Yang Hsi Hua. "We've never had anything like this, we've never had a
building topple over. Also, it was constantly shaking, so
everyone was really scared, we ran to empty open spaces to avoid
it."  Aftershocks with a magnitude of at least 5.0 could rock the
island in the next two weeks, the government said. Smaller
tremors rattled nervous residents throughout the day. Residents waited and watched anxiously as emergency workers
dressed in fluorescent orange and red suits and wearing helmets
searched for residents trapped in apartment blocks. Hualien is home to about 100 000 people. Its streets were
buckled by the force of the quake, with around 40 000 homes left
without water and around 1 900 without power. Water supply had
returned to nearly 5 000 homes by noon (0400 GMT), while power
was restored to around 1 700 households.  DAMAGE, PANIC Emergency workers surrounded a badly damaged 12-storey
residential building, a major focus of the rescue effort.
Windows had collapsed and the building was wedged into the
ground at a roughly 40-degree angle. Rescuers worked their way around and through the building
while residents looked on from behind cordoned-off roads. Others
spoke of the panic when the earthquake struck. "We were still open when it happened," said Lin Ching-wen,
who operates a restaurant near a damaged military hospital. "I grabbed my wife and children and we ran out and tried to
rescue people," he said. A Reuters video showed large cracks in the road, while
police and emergency services tried to help anxious people
roaming the streets. A car sat submerged in rubble as rescue
workers combed through the ruins of a nearby building. President Tsai Ing-wen went to the scene of the quake early
on Wednesday to help direct rescue operations. "The president has asked the cabinet and related ministries
to immediately launch the 'disaster mechanism' and to work at
the fastest rate on disaster relief work," Tsai's office said in
a statement. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co, the world's
largest contract chipmaker and major Apple supplier,
said initial assessments indicated no impact from the
earthquake. Taiwan, a self-ruled island that China considers part of its
territory, lies near the junction of two tectonic plates and is
prone to earthquakes. An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.1
struck nearby on Sunday. More than 100 people were killed in a quake in southern
Taiwan in 2016, and some Taiwanese remain scarred by a 7.6
magnitude quake that was felt across the island and killed more
than 2,000 people in 1999. Reuters