Johannesburg - The ANC in Gauteng says it is ready to defend itself in court after disgruntled members filed a court application to nullify the outcomes of the Sedibeng regional conference. Unhappy ANC members from branches in the Sedibeng region want the regional conference that took place at the end of June to be nullified and for the newly-elected regional leadership to be dissolved. Members claim there were issues with credentials at the conference. ANC Gauteng regions held their conferences in June in the lead up to the provincial conference set to take place next weekend. ANC Gauteng spokesperson Motaletale Modiba confirmed that the party had been served with legal papers. “We have indeed received documents from some of our members. We are very much prepared to defend ourselves and the conferences that we have held,” said Modiba. “We are pushing for the awards to be made with costs on all these litigations cases that are brought against us. We have gone the extra mile to ensure that are conferences are run in adherence to the party's constitution, hence there was a dispute resolution process that was headed up by PEC (Provincial Executive Committee) deployees”. “We are satisfied from where we are that we have followed all the relevant processes,” said Modiba. The ANC has been facing a string of litigations from disgruntled members from various provinces in the lead up to a number provincial or regional conferences. The latest failed court action was to halt ANC Limpopo provincial conference. The KwaZulu-Natal ANC’s provincial conference was interdicted in June when disgruntled regions approached the courts. It’s not clear yet when the KZN conference will be held. The provincial conferences which were held in the Free State and the Eastern Cape have also come under question with ANC members there also threatening to take the party to court. Modiba cautioned members not to approach the court when they were not unhappy with decisions especially when proper processes were followed. “We are satisfied from where we are that we have followed all the relevant processes. We will not allow unhappy members to hold our organisation to ransom. People must learn to accept outcomes especially in cases where processes were followed,” said Modiba. * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. Politics Hub