For one family, the devastation was not caused by the loss of material things: they have nothing but ashes and bones to bury after their relative perished in the fire, which started late on Thursday night. Yesterday, when The Independent on Saturday arrived at the settlement, debris was still smoking and residents were rummaging through it trying to salvage what was left of their homes. Some were already beginning to clear the burnt rubble, preparing to rebuild. The Mncwango family carefully combed the area where Thembinkosi Mncwango’s shack was, searching for his remains. Anipho Nkosi, Mncwango’s sister-in-law, was tearful as her brothers pointed to pieces of bone they suspected belonged to Mncwango, 39, who was trapped in his shack. “I live in Pinetown. When I got a phone call about the fire I arrived here at 6.30am and the firefighters were still busy putting out the fire,” she said. She said residents suspected the fire was started by a candle, perhaps in Mncwango’s shack, at about 11pm. Nkosi said Mncwango’s brother awoke to find the shacks on fire and only noticed that Mncwango was not among those who escaped the blaze at about 5am and that was when they went to look for his shack. “It breaks my heart when I think of the way he died. His bones are at the corner at the back of the shack, which means that he couldn’t make it to the door. “This place is a death trap and no one should be living here.” She said the hardest part of the ordeal would be returning home to Nongoma with only bones and ashes left of her brother-in-law. “People here have not slept at all. They have been awake since the fire started and they are rebuilding because they have nowhere else to go. There have been many councillors here but the situation people are faced with never changes. “Where are they going to sleep? Their ID books and bank cards all went up in flames.” She said that at 6.30am yesterday she phoned the police, telling them her brother-in-law had burnt in his shack and they needed assistance. Police arrived only after 9am. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed that police did find the charred remains of a man and an inquest docket was opened by Sydenham police station. eThekwini Fire Division commander Trevor Stevens said they used five fire engines to put out the blaze, which he described as the biggest he had seen in the last 10 years at the informal settlement. “We arrived on scene around 11pm and it took us 10 hours to completely put out the fire. We left at 8am,” he said. The Independent on Saturday