Johannesburg - Duduzane Zuma has been set strict bail conditions following his appearance at the Johannesburg Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Monday morning on corruption charges. He was greeted by a huge media contingent when he entered Court Room B dressed casually with his legs shackled. Former president Jacob Zuma’s son is facing charges of corruption linked to an alleged bribe to former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas. Duduzane has a close relationship with the infamous Gupta family and has been seen as instrumental in the state capture allegations involving the family. Duduzane had handed himself over at the Johannesburg Central Police Station in the early hours of Monday morning, following an agreement with his lawyers and the police. He was briefly detained at OR Tambo Airport on Thursday night when flew into OR Tambo International Airport from Dubai. At the time his lawyer denied that there was a corruption case against him. During the short appearance, the State did not oppose bail but asked that conditions be set to restrict his movement. The case was postponed and he was granted bail of R100 000. His next appearance will be on January 24, 2019.     To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The NPA’s Phindi Louw said the State asked for the lengthy postponement due to ongoing investigations. "The case has been postponed to January 24, we have asked for a lengthy postponement because of the nature of investigations that still need to be conducted,” she said. “The conditions for bail is that he has to hand over his passport to the State and when he needs to travel out of town he needs to consult with the investigative officer and also report daily at the Rosebank Police Station.” IOL