CAPE TOWN - Apple has launched new versions of its MacBook Pro laptops, with improved hardware specifications and features. The models are a 13-inch model with Touch Bar and the 15-inch model with Touch Bar have new processors and a few other updates. These updates include 6-core CPUs, 32GB of RAM, and the Apple T2 Chip for improved security. WATCH:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Apple today updated MacBook Pro with faster performance and new pro features, making it the most advanced Mac notebook ever,” said Apple. According to Apple, the new devices feature 8th-generation Intel Core processors, which are supposed to offer superior performance compared to the processors in previous MacBook Pro models. They will have Radeon Pro graphics, large Force Touch trackpads, the Touch Bar and Touch ID, stereo speakers, and Thunderbolt 3 ports are carried over into the new MacBook Pro line-up, added Apple. A Retina True Tone display with 500 nits of brightness and support for the P3 wide colour range. After issues were reported about the keyboards in the current generation of laptops, Apple has improved third-generation keyboard these devices. If you require a lot of storage space, the 15-inch model an be fitted with up to 4TB of SSD storage. Other specifications include: .tg {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg .tg-siak{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;vertical-align:top} .tg .tg-yw4l{vertical-align:top} Pricing A 13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar will cost: R24,000 ($1799) A 15-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar will cost: R32,000 ($2399) There is also a much more expensive MacBook Pro 15-inch available on Apple's site for R 89,000 ($6,699). The reason for the hefty price tag is because it comes with an Intel Core i9 CPU, 32GB of RAM, Radeon Pro 560X, and 4TB of SSD storage. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE