Grahamstown, where she was born in 1886, Bulawayo in Zimbabwe and the third, Durban, where she trained at the Berea Nursing College. More towards the middle of the triangle is the Witwatersrand, where she poisoned her two husbands and her own son, and Pretoria central prison, where she became the second woman in South African history to be hanged. De Melker and her link to Durban comes up in Mark Rose-Christie’s Mystery Ghost Bus tour that comes to Durban on Saturday. The tour has been going on for 18 years in various South Africa cities. According to a release, this “production-on-wheels” is unlike the typical ghost tour. Host Mark Rose-Christie added special effects, a clever scare or two, and an explanation of the science of the paranormal, where members of the audience are able to experience force fields for themselves during the dowsing rods audience participation segment of the tour.  There are also some pub stops to calm one’s n-e-r-v-e-s and indulge in ‘spirits’ of another sort, with the other off-the-bus stops including the famous poltergeist house of Campbell Road and, of course, at the end of the tour, the cemetery, where Rose-Christie presents a chilling climax with a suitably thrilling visual effect. Known to have turned sceptics into believers with his explanation of the different types of ghosts, while giving credible scientific reasons as to why they appear, one of the highlights of the tour is the famous “Spookhouse” (as it is known to locals) of Musgrave Road. Other haunted buildings include The Playhouse, which has a phantom lurking under the stage, as witnessed by well-known actor Joseph Clark; Durban High School with its tragic tale of the science master who died after an explosion; the sad tale of the little boy who committed suicide at Victoria Mansions; the well-known phantom hitch-hiker, the young Indian girl known as Highway Sheila and many more spooky tales. To round it off is the nuance of ghost-hunting apps, which Rose-Christie shows everyone how to download on to their cellphones, such as EVP recorders, EMF meters and the Spirit Box. For more details and to book, see www.MysteryGhostBus.co.za. The tours cost R369 a person and run from 7pm to just after midnight. The Independent on Saturday