Johannesburg - Gauteng police have launched a manhunt after a security guard was shot and killed and another wounded in a robbery incident at a Shoprite store in Ekurhuleni. The incident happened on the evening of July 20 at the supermarket's store in Ratanda mall, Heidelberg. Video footage showing the shocking incident has since surfaced online. In the footage, a man is seen attempting to enter the store before being stopped by a guard who appears to first question him and then search him, leading to some resistance from the man. A scuffle then ensues between the two, with the man seen taking out a firearm and trying to aim it at the guard. The guard is then seen pushing the man to the ground before the man's accomplices rush to the scene and shoot the guard several times.   Gauteng police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed the armed robbery at the store. "During the armed robbery, a security guard was shot and killed and another taken to the hospital with an injury to his hand," he said. He confirmed that one person had been arrested in connection with the robbery and is facing murder, attempted murder, armed robbery and possession of unlicensed firearm charges. He has since appeared in the Heidelberg Magistrates' court on Monday where the case was remanded. "A manhunt for the other suspects is continuing," he said. Adding to this was Shoprite, who also confirmed the incident and sent its condolences to the victim's family. The supermarket chain is supporting them during this time, whilst staff are being counselled to assist them to recover from this terrible ordeal. "Shoprite deplores the incidences of violence in its communities that prevents ordinary citizens to conduct their normal business in public places and deprives them of their safety. The group also said it was working closely with Provincial Investigation Unit (PIU) of the South African Police Service to resolve the crime. Anyone with more information is urged to contact crime Stop at 08600 10111 and any information that may lead to the arrest of the suspects may be rewarded. IOL