Rustenburg - Former president Nelson Mandela preached reconciliation and unity, North West Provincial Legislature Speaker Sussana Dantjie said on Wednesday. "When he came out of prison after serving many years his word was reconciliation, his presidency was different from other presidents that took after him because his task was to reconcile South Africans and to unite African people." She said despite Mandela being respected worldwide, he remained humble until his last day on earth. Dantjie and other members of the provincial legislature were in Freedom Park outside Rustenburg to celebrate Nelson Mandela Day by donating groceries, warm clothing, blankets and toiletries at Ntshalle Bana Day Care Centre. Deputy Speaker Jane Manganye visited Kgaratlho Project for the Blind in Magogoe and Legae Motheo Child and Youth Centre in Seweding to donate groceries and clean their yards respectively as part of the provincial legislature's contribution to Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations. In the Dr Kenneth Kaunda district, Itumeleng Mosala and team were expected to visit Thembekane Home-Based care centre to donate food parcels and refurbish water and sanitation infrastructure in Khuma near Stilfontein. Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele and National Police Commissioner, General Kehla Sitole visited the Tlhabane and Rustenburg police stations. They were accompanied by North West premier, Professor Job Mokgoro, Community Safety and Transport Management MEC Dr Mpho Motlhabane and the mayor of Rustenburg Mpho Khunou. They were also expected to visit Boitekong police station and hold an imbizo where they will hand over hampers to identified needy elderly people. Mandela Day is an annual international day in honour of Nelson Mandela, celebrated each year on 18 July, his birthday. It is a global call to action that celebrates the idea that each individual has the power to transform the world and the ability to make an impact. The day was officially declared by the United Nations in November 2009, with the first UN Mandela Day held on 18 July 2010. Mandela was a South African anti-apartheid fighter who served 27 years in prison. He was the first democratically elected President of South Africa and served from 1994 until 1999. Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela was born on July 18, 1918, in Mvezo in the Eastern Cape and died on December 5, 2013 in Houghton Estate, Johannesburg. He was 95. African News Agency (ANA)