CAPE TOWN - Radisson Hospitality AB, announced the appointment of  Frédéric Feijs as Regional Director for North Africa & Egypt. Frederic rejoins Radisson Hotel Group, where he started his career in the hospitality industry in 1998, at the Radisson Blu Royal Hotel Brussels. In his new role, Frederic assumes responsibility for the group’s presence in Francophone Africa and Egypt and will play a key role in the evolution of the brand in these markets. Frederic will be based at the Radisson Hotel Group’s Area Support Office in Dubai.  Take a look at a few facts about Frédéric Feijs: 1. Frédéric Feijs was born on the 10th of February 1978 in  Brussels ( Schaerbeek) Belgium. 2. He started his career in the hospitality industry in 1998, at the Radisson Blu Royal Hotel Brussels. 3. Between 1998 - 2000, He attended Brussels Hotel Management School. 4. In 2008, He also attended Cornell University where he studied Business leadership and Financial management. 5. At supervisory level and HOD level, Feijs has received many manager of the year awards. 6. He has held many positions in the industry such as Assitant F&B Manager, F&B Manager, General Manager, Regional genera Manager and Executive Assistant Manager.  7.  Frederic has extensive experience in Francophone Africa having worked in Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Mali and Egypt with the Radisson Hotel Group. When asked what inspired him and keeps him focused in the industry, Feijs says customer satisfaction. "Focusing on the customer is what is giving me the best inspiration and at the same time the best chance of success. Customers are at the heart of the hospitality industry and no matter what service we provide, we need our guests to see value added from our product or service. Focusing on the product, employees and our target market are always at the core of what I do", Feijs told Business Report. "The fact that our days are never the same in our changing environment is also very stimulating and keeps me motivated", said Feijs. In a statement, Feijs said that he is very excited to re-join Radisson Hotel Group and honored to lead the team in Francophone Africa and Egypt. "Our mission is to enrich the lives of our guests, team members and the community in this unique area and make every moment matter” said Frederic. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE