MAHIKENG - North West premier Professor Job Mokgoro wants a solid, caring and corruption-free public service in the province, he said on Tuesday. "Government departments should not be breeding grounds for corruption," he told managers in various government departments. He was outlining his vision and programme of action for the remainder of the current term, while at the same time reiterating his call for improved ways of carrying out public services and putting people first. He said he wanted to hand over a public service which was free of corruption to the next administration. He was elected North West premier on June 22, following the resignation of former premier Supra Mahumapelo on May 23, following a wave of protests in the province as residents demanded his resignation. Mokgoro said public service was not about drawing a monthly salary, but to serve the community. "Public service is a commitment to provide good service to the community, it is a dedication to serve the community." He said the province should do away with "the mandate issue", as it was a "murderous weapon". Public service managers told him there was a need for a change in the province. "Premier, we are deeply hurt inside, we need change, people want to see change, when people stand up they wanted to see change," said one woman. She was referring to the April 18, when residents in the province took to the streets demanding the resignation of former premier Mahumapelo. Smuts Mathe told Mokgoro that they welcomed him, support him and urged him to fight against corruption. "Premier, us public servants cannot live together with corruption," he said. Mokgoro was well received by hundreds of public servant managers when he walked into the hall, as they rose and some whistled and ululated as he took his seat. He was flanked by his political adviser Pitso Tolo, administrator in the premier's office Sibusiso Mpanza, and the administrator in the provincial department of health Jeanette Hunter. African News Agency (ANA)