“Trafficking and illegal flow of goods are a threat to our countries and human life,” Madagascar President Hery Rajaonarimampianina said yesterday. Rajaonarimampianina was the first to make the call to the BRICS leaders on behalf of all islands on the African continent. He asked BRICS to help them to protect their seas and provide infrastructure development in their respective countries. According to island leaders, international maritime crimes and illicit outflows of goods were posing huge challenges and threats to their small nations. Rajaonarimampianina was part of an African, Caribbean and Islamic group invited by Ramaphosa for BRICS-Africa Outreach, which formed part of the 10th BRICS Summit at the Sandton Convention Centre yesterday. The BRICS-Africa Outreach aimed to improve trade and investment relations with all the global south countries. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa had invited the African, Caribbean and Islamic countries to support fair trade and investment and to reject “unilateralism” as espoused by US President Donald Trump. The BRICS-Africa Outreach also allowed these African leaders to share their challenges and infrastructure needs with the BRICS leaders. Rajaonarimampianina was the most vocal, saying their autonomy was at stake because of the brazen criminality of pirates. “Trafficking and illicit flow of goods is used through our seas. This is a reserve of our biodiversity. It is our source of income. We would like the assistance of the BRICS countries to help us defeat trafficking,” Rajaonarimampianina said. He also welcomed the establishment of the BRICS’ New Development Bank which, he said, would assist their countries with financial aid to implement strategic infrastructure development projects in their countries. Uganda President Yoweri Museveni had personally asked Ramaphosa to be the coordinator and thanked him for bringing most of the African leaders and his BRICS counterparts under one roof to discuss future developments and trade opportunities in their countries. All these African leaders were adamant that they no longer wanted to be “exporters of raw materials”. “Africa is home to more than 1.25billion people. In east Africa, there are opportunities in fishing, steel, copper, milk, construction, to mention a few. We want the BRICS countries, including South Africa, to invest in railways, construction of roads and other infrastructure development projects in our region,” Museveni said. He said a partnership with BRICS would bring hope to more 168 million people living in east Africa. Rwanda President Paul Kagame was the first African leader to welcome the BRICS gesture. Like all African countries, Kagame said he hoped the New Development Bank would assist all African countries with their infrastructure projects and initiatives. The Independent on Saturday