Cape Town - Col’Cacchio, the popular Italian-inspired franchise, has announced that their V&A Waterfront restaurant is now fully Halaal, following the recent conversion of the group’s Atholl and Canal Walk stores. The Waterfront restaurant is now SANHA-certified Halaal, and boasts an impressive new menu which includes all the tried and tested iconic Col’Cacchio favourites as well as an exciting new mocktail range. Col’Cacchio is an innovative brand that has always been able to adapt and stay ahead of food trends, in part due to the fact that they prepare everything in-house using only the freshest ingredients. Knowing the exact origin of every delicious component of their menu items gives them an elevated level of control and consistency over their new Halaal menu. “Our strength has always been to listen to our customers and make them a part of the Col’Cacchio family. We hope that by converting these key locations into certified Halaal stores, we will continue to serve the communities we are proud to be a part of,” says Kinga Baranowska, co-founder of the Col’Cacchio Food Group. Some of the stand-out dishes from the new Halaal menu include some great taste combinations including:
● Hollywood Scene – a crowd favourite with macon, thyme, rosso onion, avo and crispy onions
● Salmone – back on the menu due to popular demand, the Salmone is made with delicious smoked salmon, rocket, sour cream and black pepper
● Makhani – a toasted piandine made on thin Italian flatbread, folded and toasted with hearty butter chicken, crispy onions and galbani fior di latte mozzarella Founded in 1992, Col’Cacchio has a legacy of crafting artisanal meals out of the freshest sourced ingredients, with quality and innovation at the heart of their dynamic offering. Col’Cacchio has always been at the forefront of dietary trends, being one of the first in the market to introduce carb conscious options for pizza, salad and pasta. Their offering now includes a Halaal food option as well as gluten-free and vegan alternatives. Col’Cacchio are always looking at new and innovative methods to help expand the business with new franchisees being a massive component. Should you be interested to any franchising opportunities you can contact Tarryn Godley at tarryng@colcacchio.co.za For more info visit www.colcacchio.co.za or hop onto the social media platforms: ● Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ColCacchio/
● Twitter: @ColCacchio
● Instagram: @colcacchio
● Download the Col’Cacchio Rewards app from the Apple App Store or Google Play and unlock delicious rewards!