This is the dire warning of Charles Ka’ Ndaba Hlatshwayo of Khulumani Support Group, an organisation that aims to restore the dignity of survivors of apartheid-related gross human violations. Hlatshwayo says there are bodies of apartheid victims all over the world. He cites those killed in the Maseru massacre who are still buried there. The families don’t have service certificates to use to claim compensation from the military veterans fund. He adds: “No death certificate, no exhuming of the bodies.” Hlatswayo deals with matters pertaining to those who died in foreign lands whose families never went to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to claim for their missing loved ones because they were hoping they would return one day. “But not all of them came back.” His work mainly involves military veterans, linking the families of the missing with various governments departments. For a person who died in exile, they will find out which country and unit they were in and who their commander was.  After the verification process, they link them to the National Prosecuting Authority’s Missing Persons Task Team, which is also responsible for exhumations. “I am currently busy with 11 people’s cases. One family from Dube, Soweto, whose member was among those killed in the Maseru massacre raid in 1992. Thirty were members of uMkhonto weSizwe and 12 were Basotho.” The names of the missing 30 are inscribed in Freedom Park, Pretoria, but the victim from Dube does not appear there. He explains that former president Thabo Mbeki told the Dube family their son was killed in the raid and was buried in Maseru. Shockingly, Hlatshwayo says he found out there were another nine brutally killed in Maseru and buried in Ladybrand in one grave. “Each year, they have a celebration in December where they get families from Lesotho and South Africa to come together and celebrate their history. But how can we celebrate freedom when the bodies have been there since 1992? It is not yet Uhuru, (just as) the land is still in the hands of the minority.’’ Below are the stories of some family members whose loved ones left the country during or after the June 16 Soweto Uprising never to return.  Caroline Dieketseng Dithate, 60: Jabulani, Soweto. Her uncle, Tshidiso Robert Leshoro, left in 1976 and is still missing. “He used to call, as we had a landline at home. But he eventually stopped. Around the 1980s, Thabo Mbeki came to our home and told my grandfather that my uncle (Leshoro) had died in the Maseru massacre,” Dithate says. “When communicated with my uncle, he would say he was in Tanzania. My grandparents were simply told he was no more. My aunt and grandfather tried to follow up, starting at Khotso House in Joburg. They then went to Lesotho.  They later learnt that Leshoro was buried in Ficksburg in the Free State. “His parents died not knowing his name is inscribed with those of many other veterans. “We went to Luthuli House and were told  we should find sponsors to bring his body back. I didnt understand because everyone else’s was fetched. Why wasn’t his? “All we ask is for his remains to be brought back.”  Dumisani Mdakane, 63:  Central Western Jabavu, Soweto He lost his brother, Vusi Simon Mdakane, a learner at Morris Isaacson High School, on December 20,1974. “He was 24 and I was 20 then. Our parents died not knowing what happened to their son. We went to places where we thought there might be a trace, but there were none.” . Hlatshwayo says the cases of uMkhonto weSizwe veterans not accounted for should go to the UN disappearance unit so South Africa can be held accountable as the matter has been pending for too long. Mdakane says no one wants to come forward with information about the circumstances of his brother’s disappearance.  Kidwell Khehla-Nyembezi, 57: Central Western Jabavu He is still hoping the remains of his nephew, Sonwabo Mnisane, who left in 1977 via Swaziland, will be exhumed and brought home. “On the night they went away, they were fetched by the late Zola Mahobe (former Mamelodi Sundowns boss) at about 2am. They went to Dube to fetch other comrades, then they left for Swaziland.” Khehla-Nyembezi says Sonwabo was among a group of learners at Phefeni Secondary School, which was known for its radicalism. “They were supposed to leave in 1976, but didn’t as the security branch got wind that there were students preparing to leave, so they ran away and were in hiding. “My sister (Sonwabo’s) mom) came home with the security branch to look for them after they (police) had tortured her to reveal his whereabouts. They searched the home and found nothing.” Khehla-Nyembezi adds that the late veteran trade unionist Mncedisi Sibeko had written to his mother informing her they were safe and on the run. “Then my nephew was killed in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, while in exile. His death certificate says he drowned in a river. The comrades who were with him say he had a big wound on his head when he was washed in a mortuary. It seemed he was beaten up and buried there.” Nyembezi says Sonwabo’s younger brother, Bongani, who is a priest, went to Tanzania and found Sonwabo’s grave. He says all those who were Azanian People’s Liberation Army  soldiers and  who defied the commanders’ orders were buried there. “My sister who is now in her 80s is frail. All she wants is for the remains of her son to be exhumed and brought home. They’ve been trying for more than 15 years with no luck.” Hlatshwayo says he found it very difficult to tell the family to go and look for their loved one in exile when he knew Sonwabo was dead. “It should be the organisation that verifies those who died in exile because the family knows nothing about life in exile or what transpired on the way to exile. “It was supposed to be the duty of the MK commanders to do the affirmation letter confirming he’s buried in Dar es Salaam, and say here is the service certificate and the confirmation letter.” The family wrote an affidavit seeking assistance from the Missing Persons Task Team to exhume the body and bring it back. Hlatshwayo says: “There is something tangible because they issued a service certificate. What remains is the confirmation letter. Then the benefits that remain in the Department of Military Veterans while the family goes to Dar es Salaam to exhume the body.” On whether he has closure now, Nyembezi says: “There is light and hope.” @LesegoMakgatho The Sunday Independent 