Cape Town - The 3rd BRICS Media Forum summit, in acknowledging the significance of July 18, 2018, the centenary commemoration of Nelson Mandela, on Thursday unanimously agreed to adopt the Cape Town 2018 declaration at its culmination. The theme of the summit had been "BRICS Media co-operation, fostering an inclusive, just world order". The aim of the summit was the strengthening of the BRICS narrative: media's role and responsibility, as well as imagining a shared global future forged by constructive and development journalism: seeking ways to enhance co-operation among the new media in BRICS countries. The #BRICSMEDIA Forum was attended by 38 mainstream media organisations from the BRICS bloc as well as African countries Liberia, Kenya, Tanzania, Namibia, Malawi, Zambia, Uganda and Ghana. Dr Iqbal Survé, Executive Chairman of Independent Media and Co-Chairman of the BRICS Media Forum, concurred with Brazil's José Juan Sanchez, co-chair of the BRICS Media Forum, who formally adopted the Cape Town Declaration, about the importance of a financial action plan concerning the timelines for the "how, when, what and who". Survé said he is sure "the sherpas following this meeting" will take forward this action plan regarding "the models that we use" and whether this be a combination of state and private enterprise financing. The Cape Town declaration reads as follows: • We will strive to learn from each other and to create pathways for sharing of content, news and people. We believe there should be an exchange of news content. • We need to increase the people-to-people exchanges between journalists as well as people working within the media fraternity. • We agree to strive to create a media landscape that upholds the value of integrity of the news that is created and shared through BRICS nations. • We will uphold the principles of responsible journalism and put measures in place to limit the spread of – as well as the effects of – fake news. • We are committed to ensuring free and equitable media coverage of all territories throughout the world. • We are committed to working towards ensuring that BRICS countries are not discriminated against in terms of access to news or access to territories which our journalists need to travel to in order to report the news. Through this ambition we believe we will help to create a more balanced and inclusive world. • We, as the BRICS member media organisations, stand united and in one voice to declare that we should be included in the opportunity to report in a free and unbiased manner on issues pertaining to our own and member countries. • There should be no discrimination against BRICS media houses from other countries or parts of the world and should find a way to overcome issues such as job discrimination in the media. • We are committed to setting up a united news service between the various BRICS news services. • We are committed to setting up a global sharing system for young journalism students from the five BRICS countries, to offer them a platform through which they will be able to share their experiences with one another as well as to learn from more experience journalists and media professionals. • We believe there should be a BRICS journalism and media academy for the development of young journalists. • As BRICS nations, we have proportionately the largest amount of young people in the world, which is why we believe it is important to encourage the exchange of journalism students to enable them to further their education and broaden their world view as well as building their own networks throughout the BRICS world. • As BRICS nations occupy a total of 26% of the earth’s landmass and 56% of its population, we need to take our rightful place on the world stage in terms of strengthening our media. At the same time, we need to look within ourselves to ensure that we are operating with the best intentions at all times and to make sure we do the basics right and honour our position as media professionals.   Business Report