Johannesburg - The Gauteng ANC has asked for patience as it undergoes internal processes to deal with the controversies surrounding former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and Brian Hlongwa. Gauteng ANC chairperson David Makhura said the provincial executive committee (PEC) had given the elective conference a report back on matters involving Mahlangu and Hlongwa and the conference stated that the matter should be resolved soon. Pressure has been mounting on the province to deal with Hlongwa and Mahlangu. Mahlangu resigned as a health MEC last year following the release of a report that found that 144 mentally ill patients had died following their removal from Life Esidimeni to unsilenced NGOs. Hlongwa was recently implicated in a scathing report by the Special Investigative Unit that uncovered corrupt and fraudulent dealings worth R1.2 billion while he was MEC of health in Gauteng. Hlongwa and Mahlangu were re-elected into the Gauteng PEC at the elective conference, a move that has angered many. When asked why the two were elected, Makhura said conference delegates used their judgement knowing that there were processes underway in addressing the issues related to the matter. The party was at pains to explain that no one would be shielded from accounting. Conference resolutions: The Gauteng ANC said it would campaign for the scrapping of the controversial e-tolling system. The system was introduced in Gauteng highways in 2013 and has been widely rejected by motorists in the province who have called for them to be scrapped. Motorists said they were not consulted before the e-tolls were introduced. “The conference agreed that e-tolls must go,” said Jacob Khawe, provincial secretary. “The conference received and welcomed the report on the e-tolls and called on provincial government to expedite its negotiations with national government to find a permanent solution to this saga.” The province said it will proceed with “rapid land release” with regards to the expropriation of land without compensation. “Conference has decided to proceed with Rapid Land Release with immediate effect. We shall not wait for the parliamentary constitutional review process,” said Khawe. The Gauteng ANC newly elected leadership 1. Provincial chairperson - David Makhura 2. Deputy provincial cphairperson -  Panyaza Lesufi 3. Provincial secretary - Jacob Khawe 4. Deputy provincial secretary - Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko 5. Provincial treasurer - Parks Tau Additional members 1. Ntombi Mekgwe 2. Khusela Diko 3. Kgosientso Sputla Ramokgopa 4. Lebogang Maile 5. Matome Chiloane 6. Boyce Maneli 7. Robert Mashigo 8. Dr. Bandile Masuku 9. Dr. Rebecca Dikgamela 10. Tasneem Motara 11. Judith Tshabalala 12. Refiloe Kekana 13. Pretty (Mam Mkhize) Xaba 14. Mapiti Matsena 15. Bones Modise 16. Lindiwe Lasindwa 17. Dolly Ledwaba 18. Ezra Letsoalo 19. Peace Mabe 20. Dipuo Mvelase 21. Tshilidzi Munyai 22. Qedani Mahlangu 23. Kedibone Diale 24. Mbali Hlophe 25. Vuyo Mhlakaza 26. Elias Mzi Khumalo 27. Morekane Mosupye 28. Hope Papo 29. Brian Hlongwa 30. Gogo Ndlovane IOL