CAPE TOWN - In honor of Nelson Mandela, people all around the world are dedicating 67 minutes of their time to doing something good. Here are 2 apps that dedicating their platforms to help you pay it forward on #MandelaDay. What is MyBru?  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. MyBru is an app that helps users find specials wherever they are by simply switching between our four categories - food, drinks, retail and entertainment. Co-founders Kalvin Sutherland and Reece Meyer had the plan of changing the way we spend our time, the way we plan, and the way we live. They believe that every one of us deserves the opportunity to wake up each day and make the most of life, and thus MyBru was born. The app that lets you find specials, make plans, have fun, anywhere and everywhere. "MyBru brings you the opportunity for a more spontaneous lifestyle. It’s time to enjoy everything your city has to offer you", said the company. "On Wednesday, to make it easier for you to find and support causes making a difference, all pins under our ‘entertainment’ category will be solely dedicated to 67 causes doing something in support of#MandelaDay2018". "#MandelaDay is all about making a difference. Let’s start in our own Mother City, and support those already invested in making our beautiful country a better place", said the company. We need your help in deciding which #MandelaDay causes are doing the most to make a difference. You can download our app for free on the Apple App Store, or the Google Play Store if you want to see which 67 causes we're supporting on Wednesday What is forgood?   forgood is an online platform that connects passionate people with needy organisations. It is a social marketplace where skills, goods, services and information can easily be offered and asked for. "Our mission is to create 100,000 social citizens. We aim to make doing good easy, fun and free", said forgood. "Marking 100 years since Nelson Mandela was born, there is no better time than now to get stuck in and do something really cool for Mandela Day. This year’s theme, Be the Legacy, is encouraging everyone to take #ActionAgainstPoverty by devoting 67 minutes of their time to public service on 18 July – Mandela’s birthday", said Forgood in a statement. "We’ve listed 100 different opportunities across the country, for individuals or groups to get involved in. Our website has 9 campaigns (one for each province) – with a combined total of 100 ways to take part in #MandelaDay", said the company. How to register on the forgood platform? 1. On the platform, When you volunteer, donate goods or create an Offer – we’ll send you an email with an activation link. 2. Click the link in the email and we’ll group all your activity under a personal profile on forgood. According to forgood, Users should think of it as their “Social CV” – great for showing off at your next performance appraisal or job interview. If you’d like to register before doing anything on the site, you’ll find the Register link on the top navigation. There is no cost to use forgood as a User or as a Cause. Follow Business Report on Instagram here - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE