CAPE TOWN - Hisense is an electronics manufacturing company, mostly known for their home appliances. I was curious to see how its recent smartphone release of the Infinity F24 would shape up within the cluttered of smartphones market. Hisense tapped into the mobile communication device market in 2012 and continues to make great budget-friendly smartphones, with the Infinity F24 priced between R3 300 and R3 500. The F24 is beautiful designed with 5.99 inch IPS Display and 18.9 aspect ratio, a really good screen size for video display and split-screen view. With an HD plus display, the infinity F24 allows for great viewing and clear images when you're watching videos or playing games. It weighs 180g and has dimensions of 153mm x 77mm x 9.65mm. The infinity F24 design is close to a mobicel R9 plus, but the mobicel is slightly smaller with 5.7-inch display. The Infinity F24 has a good camera quality of 13MP rear camera and 8MP front camera, both cameras have flash capability. The infinity F24 is able to adjust the camera lighting for a clear focus. Instead of using the screen button to take a picture you can use the volume keys or the fingerprint scanner, which makes the Infinity F24 convenient for selfie takers. The video quality consists of 1080p at 30fps. You can see how long it will take for the battery to be fully charged, which is a cool feature. Another appealing feature is that you can hide your navigation bar. The Infinity F24 runs Android 7 with storage space of 16-gig and 2-gig RAM. You can also insert a microSD to expand your storage but you’ll have to choose between Dual SIM Card or microSD, which is kind of an inconvenience. Another downer about the phone is that it is hard to get a tight grip while unlocking the phone with a fingerprint scanner. What they could have done is position the scanner a bit low. What’s in the box? * Screen protector * USB cable/ Charger * Cover * User Manual * Earphones * Eject pin WATCH:    READ ALSO: Hisense TV's are getting Amazon's AlexaREAD ALSO: WATCH: First look at the new Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+TOP STORY: Capitec Bank disputes FNB claim on biometric ATM - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE