INTERNATIONAL - Google is set to launch its new Operating System (OS) called Android P designed to help you use your device less often than you do.  The new OS is focused around using artificial intelligence for everything. Android P offers a handful of tools to help you keep your phone from bothering you, focusing on how notifications work, to new features that will keep you from using it so often. For example, Android P is going to try and predict what you want when you want it, whether that’s an app or a particular task within an app. The aim is to help you to no longer have to think or write anything back to the dozens of messages you get but to just tap a button and be free. The redesign of the Android P dashboard acts as an app giving you information about your phone usage.  Here’s how it breaks down the data: 1. How many minutes you’ve used your phone overall per day 2. How many notifications you’ve received 3. A pie chart of how long you’ve used each app on your phone that day 4. How long per day you’ve used each app on your phone, broken down hour by hour The main aim of this is to allow you to set limits on yourself. It’s also available as a public beta starting right away on 11 different phones. Google also wants to solve the issue of battery-hogging apps with Android P by introducing Adaptive Battery. Developed by DeepMind an AI-focused company, Adaptive Battery learns an individual’s usage patterns and directs the power to only the apps you need at the time you need them. The official release of Android P won’t happen until later this year, but you're keen to see what it's all about you can install the first public beta which is available for a few supported smartphones. Here’s the list of supported devices: 1.Pixel 2 / Pixel 2 XL 2.Pixel / Pixel XL 3.Essential Phone 4.Sony Xperia XZ2 5.OnePlus 6 (coming soon) 6.Xiaomi Mi Mix 2S 7.Nokia 7 Plus 8.Oppo R15 Pro 10.Vivo X21 How to install it? 1. If you have a Pixel phone,  Go to the Android Beta Program website. 2. Sign up for access to pre-release versions of Android P that will be updated over the next few months. 3.Make sure you’re signed into Google with the account connected to the phone you’ll be using. 4. After you register, you’ll get a notification on your device about a system update being available 5. You don't need to do a full reset of your data to move to Android P Beta, but it’s recommended that you back up data before enrolling your device. 6. Another way is that you can manually download and flash your Pixel device to the latest Android P build. WATCH:   READ ALSO: WATCH: Everything you need to know about Google's Developer Conference READ ALSO: Google Lens now available for Android devices TOP STORY: Durban to have its own London Eye - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE