CAPE TOWN - As Mother's Day fast approaches, everyone everywhere is trying to decide on the perfect gift. We are here to assist, tech gifts will be a great way to spoil the special woman in your life and perhaps make your mom's live a little easier. Here a list of great tech-gifts: 1. Kindle Paperwhite   A Kindle Paperwhite is a perfect gift if she loves to read. Kindle Paperwhite comes with a 6-inch backlit display that's really easy on the eyes. The battery lasts a few weeks on a single charge and the e-reader is compact to carry around. You can add a Kindle Unlimited subscription to make this gift even more valuable. The subscription allows Kindle readers to access over 1 million Kindle titles for free. Amazon also sells a Paperwhite Starter Pack variant which comes bundled with device protection plan, e-books, and a free cover. Price: R2 299 - R2 799. Where can I get it: Takealot and Incredible Connection. 2. Fujifilm Instax Mini 8   The Fujifilm Instax Mini 8 can be a great instant camera for your mother. It's simple, fun, and easy to carry around. It can be useful for casual photography. It uses two AA-sized batteries and comes with a flashing LED light. Price: R 1 199 - R 1 299 Where: TakeAlot, Superbalist and Incredible Connection. 3. Fitness smartwatch   A good fitness band can help your mom keep a track of their daily activities and keep them fit. There are many different models that are packed with features and comes with an impressive battery life. It can track daily activities, monitor sleep and can also offer personalised step-by-step workout routines. You can get Fitbit, Huawei, Apple and Samsung fitness smartwatches. Price: R 499 - R 5 000 Where: Takealot, Sportmans Wearhouse, Incredible Conection. 4. Digital Therapy electric massage machine   Help solve your mom's issues with shoulder pain and muscle pain after a tiring day, with a massage machine. This device works by stimulating pressure points and improves blood flow. It will help your mom relax when feeling tired. Price: R99 - R5 000 Where: Takealot, Bidorbuy, WantItAll or Incredible Connection 5. A smart robot vacuum   As technology evolves, you can now get a household vacuum the is handled by a robot. It's smartphone and Alexa-enabled, anti-drop/collision ready, and boasts 1.7 hours of battery to cover a wide area. Price: R999 - R9 500 Where: Takealot, LG, Buyout and Dionwired 6. Tile Mate   Don't let your mom misplace the important stuff like keys, wallets, or phones. Tile Mate trackers will ensure that she can easily find where her valuables are without a fuss. Price: R399 - R999 Where: Takealot, iStore, Dionwired and Incredible Connection 7. Cameo  By using this application called Cameo, have her favorite star send her a personalised message. Singers, actors, Real Housewives, and unparalleled stars like Miss Coco Peru are all available. Price: Prices vary depending on wattage and ego but start at $50 (R614, 08) READ ALSO: Mother's Day specials that will not break the bank READ ALSO: This is how much teachers, lawyers and nurses earn TOP STORY: This black dot message may cause your WhatsApp to crash - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE