SYDNEY - Australia's scandal-hit former
deputy prime minister was widely criticised on Tuesday for
agreeing to a paid tell-all television interview about an
extramarital affair, threatening further disharmony in Prime
Minister Malcolm Turnbull's government. The move is unusual for an elected official - Barnaby Joyce
is now a backbencher in the Liberal-National coalition
government - and prompted calls from his own party for a ban on
payments for media appearances by serving politicians. The payment, which media said was A$150,000 ($112,950),
provoked critical comment on social media and again raised the
hackles of Turnbull, who this year lambasted Joyce's "shocking
error of judgement over the affair with his media adviser. "It has been very widely criticised," Turnbull told
Tasmanian radio station LAFM, speaking of the interview payment.
"It is certainly not a course of action I would have encouraged
him to take, I will put it that way." Joyce, perhaps best known for once threatening to kill U.S.
movie star Johnny Depp's dogs over a quarantine violation, had
requested the media respect his privacy when his affair with
staff member Vicki Campion was made public. He resigned as leader of the Nationals, the junior coalition
partner, in February after weeks of pressure. Joyce and Campion
now live together and recently had a child, a son whom Joyce
said would be the beneficiary of the interview payment. Joyce added that Campion, as a private citizen, had a right
to make money from an already intrusive situation. "In the last fortnight we've had drones over our house,
we've had paparazzi waiting for us," Joyce told reporters in
Canberra. "We tried just burning this out and that didn't work." As Joyce continues to enjoy influence within the
conservative wing of the coalition government, political
analysts said Turnbull can ill afford any split, with a federal
election less than a year away. "The government cannot be seen to fighting publicly," said
Haydon Manning of Flinders University in South Australia.
"Disunity is death, as they say in Australian politics." Backbench lawmakers are permitted to accept money for media
engagements, but Australian lawmakers have traditionally shunned
financial offers. Reuters