CAPE TOWN - South African billionaire and founder of the financial services company, PSG group, Jannie Mouton has today released a letter, stating that he has recently been diagnosed with an early stage of dementia. The businessman who grew up in Carnarvon in the Northern Province has come a long way in the financial services industry. Initially starting out as an articled clerk at PwC, Mouton then qualified as a chartered accountant in 1973. In 1955, Mouton co-founded a firm, Senekal, Mouton & Kitshoff, where he served as a managing partner. In a letter issued today, Jannie says that his announcement comes after he feels the need to continue his transparency with the public and share this information. “I have recently been diagnosed with an early form of dementia. The implication of this is that my short-term memory does not always function as it should, the result being that I sometimes forget people's names, repeat myself, or may appear somewhat disorientated. This does not happen every day, but I cannot ignore it”, says the letter. Mouton said that he has a good team of support who are assisting him with managing his illness. The businessman also said that PSG is his life, having contributed 22 years to building the business. “I am incredibly proud of the businesses we have created over the years, including the likes of Capitec, PSG Konsult, Curro, Zeder and all other investments for the future. There are so many opportunities that the PSG team is currently working on. I am also proud of our ongoing contribution towards the South African economy. I still believe that this is a country filled with opportunity and very talented people”, says the letter. Despite Mouton’s illness, this letter stands to reaffirm that the business will go on and that PSG is, in fact, working on exciting opportunities. Meanwhile, PSG is managed by CEO Francois Gouws whilst Mouton’s son, Piet Mouton serves as non-executive director of the financial services group. Read the full letter below: I have a good team of physicians and advisors that support me andcarefully monitor the situation. I am on medication to help manageand limit the symptoms of my illness. This team also communicatesdirectly with the lead independent director on the PSG Group board,Patrick Burton, in order for the right decisions to be made at theright time. The PSG way has always been to be proactive and to planahead as best possible. PSG is my life and I have dedicated myself to the company for thepast 22 years. I am incredibly proud of the businesses we havecreated over the years, including the likes of Capitec, PSG Konsult,Curro, Zeder and all other investments for the future. There are somany opportunities that the PSG team is currently working on. I amalso proud of our ongoing contribution towards the South Africaneconomy. I still believe that this is a country filled withopportunity and very talented people. In 2010, I became the non-executive chairman of PSG Group, and havealso over the last couple of years resigned from most of theunderlying company boards as most of you are aware. PSG Group has anoutstanding team that looks after the investment portfolio and otherbusiness matters. In addition, PSG’s underlyingbusinesses/investments, in my opinion, have the best managementteams in the country. I still come into the office every day – I enjoy seeing how thepeople at PSG endeavour daily to make a difference by working hardand smart. I regularly share the lessons learnt over the years withour team and can see how the PSG DNA of thinking and doing has takenroot throughout the group. After consultation with my senior colleagues, we feel that I stillhave a contribution to make as PSG Group's non-executive chairman,given that PSG Group's executive management team is very strong withthe necessary depth, experience and knowledge – Piet, Wynand andJohan have respectively worked by my side for 14, 16 and 20 years,and have built the company with me. I kindly request the media to forthwith direct questions relating tothis matter to either Piet or one of the other members of the PSGGroup executive team. I could not have asked for more in my life. I have incrediblechildren and grandchildren. I am especially grateful to my wife,Deidré, for her incredible support – she is a real pillar ofstrength. Each family member is special in their own way and all ofthem are loyal PSG supporters. It means the world to me that theystand together and have both my and PSG's best interest at heart. I would like to sincerely thank everyone that has helped build, andwill continue to build, PSG – I am proud of each and everyone ofyou! Regards Jannie" READ ALSO: Quilter plc is ready for listing on JSE and LSE READ ALSO: Boeing buys KLX for R53.6 billion TOP STORY: This Nando's waiter became a millionaire at 21 - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE