The ANC alliance partners in the North West have vowed to lodge a protest against the expulsion of eight ANC members of the provincial legislature who were instrumental in the call for controversial premier Supra Mahumapelo to resign. A huge meeting is planned in Mahikeng on Sunday at which members of the ANC, SACP, Cosatu and the SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) are expected to gather to map out a strategy to reverse a decision by the Speaker of the North West Legislature, Suzan Dantjie, to “unilaterally” remove eight members perceived to be anti-Mahumapelo in the legislature. According to insiders, Dantjie on Tuesday, after presiding over Mahumapelo's budget speech, approached the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) in the North West and informed it of her decision to remove the eight from the list of ANC candidates in the legislature. The eight are Raymond Elisha, Wendy Matsemela, Saliva Molapisi, Mahlakeng Mahlakeng, Motlalepule Rosho, Boitumelo Moiloa, Madoda Sambatha and Duma Ndleleni. North West ANC spokesperson Gerald Modise confirmed that the party had replenished its list of candidates with the IEC on Tuesday, but said no members of the incumbent legislature had been removed from their positions. “This happens annually in terms of the Electoral Act which permits political parties to replenish their reserve list,” he said. Modise, who was on the list to be promoted to the legislature, confirmed that changes had already been made but failed to say when they would be implemented. Their intended removals came after Mahumapelo expressed concern on the same day that the party bosses, especially President Cyril Ramaphosa, were silent on comments made by the EFF that ANC members were in support of their call for a motion of no confidence against him. “Why are they not dealing with those ANC members who support the EFF motion?” Mahumapelo asked. The decision to remove the eight has angered the alliance partners and this, according to insiders, would escalate tensions in the province that led to the looting of private and public property. SACP provincial chairperson Smuts Matshe confirmed that the alliance partners would meet in Mahikeng to reverse Dantjie’s decision. “ANC acting provincial secretary Suzan Dantjie, without consulting the alliance, proceeded to do the replenishment of the list. She did not follow existing protocols with the alliance partners. “In our view, it is an illegal action. You can’t bring more than 25% of changes to the list. It can best be described as factional,” Matshe said. He said even though the decision had yet to be implemented, the SACP was not going to take the matter lightly, saying his party would engage Luthuli House, the ANC's headquarters in Joburg, to reverse the situation. “We will not engage the ANC in the North West as they are conflicted. They are struggling to make a distinction between their role in the ANC and in government,” Matshe said. Equally angry, Paul Sebegoe, the provincial chairperson of Sanco in the North West, said yesterday that the unilateral "revision of the ANC provincial legislature candidates' nomination list, without consultation with alliance partners, is a divisive act that undermines unity”. “The latest development and rumoured intended purge of members of the provincial legislature who have been vocal against allegations of corruption have not only deepened the current leadership crisis in the province but confirmed the extent to which organisational structures are being used to institutionalise factionalism, weaken oversight, including accountability structures and advance the Mahumapelo fightback strategy,” Sebegoe said. He also urged Luthuli House to reverse the decision. The Sunday Independent