CAPE TOWN - Google’s annual Developer Conference which is set to kick off today, May 8 in California, United States will reportedly unveil several new features and attendees will be able to test all the latest technologies. This is all you need to know about the conference: The 3-day conference which will take place from May 8 until May 10 at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California will reveal the latest products. Attendees will also be able to receive technical skills and hands-on learning training from engineers. Attendees will receive the latest insight on Apps which will be communicated through engaging sessions, Codelabs, Demos and App Reviews. The day is divided into four segments which include: Sandbox, Codelabs, Office Hours and App Reviews and After Hours.  Sandbox The sandbox is a designated space where attendees can explore the latest products and learn about how it works. Codelabs These kiosks which are called Codelabs, teaches individuals about the latest Google technologies. This is offered by self-pacing tutorials. Office Hours and App Reviews During Office Hours, attendees can meet Google experts and engage in one-on-one discussion. After Hours When the day-session concludes, attendees will then be able to engage in a fun food and drinks evening. Tickets Tickets for the event have been available since February this year, so exactly how much do these tickets cost? General admission costs R14 421 while community partners tickets cost 9 405 and Academic admission costs R4 702. Last month, Google offered attendees the option to reserve seats for particular sessions in advance. Sessions Day 1 will kick off with a Codelab session where attendees will be able to get their hands on the latest technologies.This will be followed with other sessions which include how AMP combined with Progressive Web Apps (PWA) enables instant user journeys across an entire site. There will be interactive discussions between Google and the attendees and people can ask Google how best to use notifications in their app. How to livestream the conference Individuals can livestream the conference by accessing Google's home page or alternatively, they can access the videos which will be available on Google's Developer Conference channel on YouTube. READ ALSO: WATCH: Google launches new job search experience TOP STORY: WATCH: Aspen launched a R1 billion high containment facility WATCH   - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE