CAPE TOWN – Microsoft announced that the new update for its Windows 10 operating system will be available to all users today. According to the company, Windows 10 is now running on more than 700 million devices and to get the new update users just need to check on Windows Update. If you can't find it there then Microsoft will send the update to existing machines next week with its monthly Patch Tuesday. Windows 10 October 2018 Update includes a number of new features. Firstly, a new cloud-powered clipboard is being added to allow Windows 10 users to copy content across machines and store a history of copied content in the cloud. The Windows 10’s Timeline feature is also getting some new features with the October 2018 Update. WATCH:   Microsoft is building new extensions for both Chrome and Firefox that will allow the rival browsers to plug into the Timeline feature and sync tabs. The company is also adding an app mirroring feature called Your Phone app with the Windows 10. How it works, is that users will be able to sync photos taken on an Android device, or send and receive text messages with Windows 10 connecting to your Android phone. iPhone support for the feature has not yet been revealed. Microsoft Launcher on Android will also gain access to Timeline, allowing you to sync more actions and content to a Windows 10 device. Timeline support is also coming to Microsoft Edge in a beta version due to debut in early November, allowing you to quickly access your tabs whether they were open on a PC or the mobile version of Edge. Microsoft will also be making it easier to showcase your thoughts with new AI-powered inking features and 3D updates for PowerPoint and Word. "We’re adding built-in animations to 3D models in PowerPoint and Word. New 3D Embedded Animations make it faster and easier for anyone to add movement and animation to slides and To give you even more creative flexibility, we’re also adding over 30 new animated 3D models," said the company in a statement. WATCH:   BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE