CAPE TOWN – FNB has extended its rewards programme with the introduction of FNB On The Go, which will enable customers on eBucks level 2 or higher to redeem a breakfast or burger meal at any Wimpy Engen 1Stop outlet across South Africa. Raj Makanjee, Chief executive of FNB Retail, said: “With FNB On The Go, we wanted to find a value-add for our clients that would resonate with their lifestyles. On average, our clients do 2-3 road trips annually and travelling can be quite costly so partnering with Wimpy at Engen 1 Stops made sense. As part of the programme, clients are offered a complimentary breakfast or burger meal while on the road. Other rewards benefits that are linked to the broader eBucks programme include petrol, groceries and air travel in the form of The Slow Lounge.” “FNB On The Go is available to Gold, Premier, Private Clients & Private Wealth clients who may be travelling by road at any given time.” FNB On The Go vouchers are redeemable via the Banking App under the eBucks tab and entitle a level 2, or higher, eBucks member to a complimentary Wimpy breakfast or burger at Engen 1Stops. FNB Customers will receive 4 vouchers annually; each voucher is valid for 3 months. Wimpy vouchers issued on the FNB App are only valid for sit-down orders. “A partnership with FNB eBucks Rewards on this campaign is a no-brainer for Wimpy. Our wide footprint, deliciously affordable food and friendly table service paired with eBucks’ solid background and extensive reach means we’ll be able to bring more families together to share special moments while they travel across the country and we are always happy to welcome new families into our Wimpy family,” said Jacques Cronje, Wimpy Marketing Manager. “We are honoured as FNB to have been voted as the coolest banking brand for the 7th consecutive year in the Sunday Times Generation Next 2018 survey. FNB On The Go is one of the ways we want to enrich our customers’ experience by offering benefits that enhance their everyday lives. We have had great success with SLOW Lounges for air travellers and following on from this was to extend a benefit to road travellers. FNB On The Go vouchers are redeemable via the banking app under the eBucks tab using a code that can be scanned or provided at a Wimpy Engen 1-Stop till point," says Dr Christoph Nieuwoudt, FNB Consumer chief executive. “The FNB rewards universe has expanded quite significantly over the years and that’s primarily because we want to continually develop solutions that ultimately add value to a customer’s life,” said Nieuwoudt. There are 48 Engen 1 Stop outlets across South Africa and as of Monday, 15 October 2018 all outlets will start participating in the programme. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE