Johannesburg - The ANC says it plans to formally respond to the accusations made against the party during testimonies from the big four banks at the Zondo commission. ANC secretary general Ace Magashule said the party was in full support of the inquiry and has called on its members and the public to make submissions if they have anything to share with the state capture inquiry. Magashule said although the party was not on trial at the inquiry, it will respond to testimonies from bank representatives. Two weeks ago the country's big four banks appeared before the state capture inquiry and told its chair deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo of how the ANC tried to convince the banks to reverse their decision to close Gupta related banks accounts. The banks closed Gupta related banks accounts in 2016 and cited suspicious transactions and reputational risk as a motivation for their decision. Representatives from Standard Bank, FNB, Absa and Nedbank told the commission of how they were contacted by the ANC's head of economic transformation Enoch Godongwana who invited them to a meeting with then ANC secretary general Gwede Mantahse and his deputy Jessie Duarte. Bank officials were confronted with questions if the banks colluded in deciding to close Gupta related bank accounts, whether they got instructions from Stellenboch and whether they were part of white monopoly capital. "The NEC will work to eradicate corruption in the private and public sector. ANC supports the commission and calls on the public with information to come forward. The ANC will respond to the commission on issues raised by banks at the inquiry," said Magashule on Monday during a post-national executive committee briefing. "Our position is clear on state capture. Those who are implicated will go there. The ANC has stated its position and said it will go there, I myself would go there," he said. The NEC also discussed the matter of the "plot" to remove Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC president. Magashule said the NEC had mandated the top six to discuss the matter and "put the matter to rest". The Sunday Times reported that Magashule held a secret meeting at the Maharani Hotel in Durban with former president Jacob Zuma. The meeting was attended by former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo, ANC Women's League secretary general Meokgo Matuba and ANC Youth League secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo. Magashule said his relationship with Ramaphosa was strong and that they were both focused on the organisation. "Me and comrade Cyril Ramaphosa will not allow any wedge drivers to come between us. We will stay focused and we are going to work together in the interest of the people," said Magashule. * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. Politics Hub