CAPE TOWN – Loyalty members of SA’s favourite rewards programme – Pick n Pay Smart Shopper – will soon be able to earn points when they refuel at BP service stations. This means that customers can soon earn points both at the pump and in BP’s forecourt Pick n Pay Express convenience store. Expected to launch later this year, the extended partnership between Pick n Pay and BP is set to give customers even more value at a time they need it most. While the exciting and attractive offer is yet to be announced, it comes at an appropriate time as consumers become under pressure with recent fuel hikes. Customers are increasingly looking for more value for money and Pick n Pay’s Smart Shopper offers just that, explains John Bradshaw, Pick n Pay’s head of marketing. “We are always looking to improve the Smart Shopper programme to make it more accessible and valuable. Our customers have told us they want more opportunities to earn points through their everyday spend, so we were excited to extend our partnership with BP to offer them this value,” says Bradshaw. “BP has had a successful strategic partnership with Pick n Pay since 2008 and is committed to delivering real value for our customers. We have consistently demonstrated this through our award-winning quality fuels and evolving convenience offerings. We identified a need to adapt and partner with Pick n Pay to improve our loyalty offer to customers. The extension to this customer-centric Smart Shopper loyalty programme to include rewards for fuel too, allows us to show our appreciation for our customers even more,’ says BPSA CEO, Priscillah Mabelane. The Pick n Pay and BP relationship dates back to 2008 when two small-format franchise stores were piloted. This strategic partnership has now grown to 133 franchise 24-hour Pick n Pay Express stores on BP forecourts across the country, with an expected 30 new stores to open in 2018 and 40 in 2019. Originally opened to satisfy an immediate top-up shop or a quick meal solution for customers, the Pick and Pay Express stores have expanded their product ranges to meet customers’ ever-changing shopping habits. “Customers are choosing to shop at smaller-format, more convenient locations and are opting for easily accessible stores with longer trading hours. Our stores now offer quality convenience options and a selection of hot foods, coffee and bakery items allowing customers to do a convenient quick shop while they fill up,” says Mabelane. Bradshaw says that since the Smart Shopper loyalty programme launched in 2011, Pick n Pay has continued to evolve the programme to offer its customers real value. “We listen very carefully to our customers: this latest innovation will make it even easier for our customers to get benefit from the Smart Shopper programme.” BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE