CAPE TOWN – Seedstars World, the largest seed-stage startup competition for emerging markets and fast-growing startup scenes, has brought its pre-selection rounds to an end. With the support of the local host  Tshimologong Digital Innovation Precinct, Seedstars World will be holding a dynamic pitch event on November 2, which is the second leg to choose the country’s best start-up. Besides representing South Africa at the Seedstars Regional Summit, the winner of the South Africa finals will win an all-inclusive trip to Switzerland, to compete at the Seedstars Summit for the title of Seedstars Global Winner and up to $1 million in equity investments and other prizes. The top startups from Johannesburg to advance to the finals are: 1. Busymed Links local pharmacies in one place for consumers to conveniently search, find and buy medicine (prescription & non-prescription) and have it delivered where ever they are. 2. Franc Group It is a self-insurance platform that offers customers the opportunity to grow their wealth and manage their personal risk. 3.Frugily A retail tech startup that aims to assist shoppers to spend their money smarter by keeping track of their basket size in relation to their budget in grocery stores, create shopping lists and view shopping history across different retail chains. 4. Kenai It is a visitor and worker management solution that uses facial recognition to facilitate the fastest and most secure sign-in possible. 5. Maxicash A financial support ecosystem built around remittance and payments for the African Diaspora to support their families financially. 6. Necta ONE app, unlimited events. Necta is an open platform for exhibitors at any event (expo, market, conference) to generate leads in an automated way. 7. Prospa A mobile savings wallet for the 10 million low-income earning South Africans. 8. Sendeddy Technologies An on-demand delivery platform that drives down the costs of moving anything from an envelope to large machinery and equipment. 9. Snapslip Snapslip is a digital receipting and analytics application, that eradicates paper receipts by sending these receipts digitally to a customers profile within the application. 10. Uthini A language learning platform that connects busy professionals who need to learn a language to people who can speak it using a structured learning path and chatbot technology. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE