JOHANNESBURG – Samsung Electronics South Africa has successfully attained the prestigious Top Employer 2019 Certification for a consecutive 5 years in a row, Top Employers Institute has named Samsung as one of the South African companies that create the best employment conditions for its staff. The prestigious global awards seek to honour companies that have demonstrated high standards in human resources practices over the last year. Top Employers Institute is a global organisation dedicated to enriching the workplace. Organisations certified as Top Employers dedicate themselves to providing the very best working environment for employees through their progressive “people-first" HR practices. “We are proud and delighted to have received this Certification. Samsung takes pride in the creativity and diversity of our talented people and strives to create an environment that provides the opportunity for growth, which is testament to our corporate philosophy that ‘a company is its people’,” said Hlubi Shivanda, Director of Corporate Affairs and BOI at Samsung Africa. The Top Employers Institute assesses companies on a comprehensive range of employment practices, from the extent of internal training opportunities to mentorship programmes. Companies need to apply to be assessed by the strict criteria used to adjudge the award. The corporations are judged on specific measures. For example, those that offer international exchange programmes, peer coaching and online work portals, score better. The certification provides employers with an important quality metric for attracting and retaining top talent. They also assess the compensation and benefits offerings as compared to competitors in the industry Top Employers hosted its annual Certification Dinner on Thursday, 4 October, providing the opportunity for recipients to celebrate their accomplishment and to meet other Top Employers during a memorable gala event. “Samsung is dedicated to the continuous development of its employee offerings and will on an ongoing basis reinforce its employee value proposition. We will endeavour to strive to maintain and improve our ranking as a Top Employer in South Africa,” concludes Shivanda. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE