DURBAN – The online residential sales launch is set to take place on November 17 for Johannesburg's newest development the Saxony Sandton that is worth R2 billion. The Saxony Sandton is just one the many projects that Saxony Developments has set out to deliver in key prominent areas in South Africa as a part of the "The Saxony" series. Rajan Naidoo, the chief executive of Saxony Developments said: "We wanted to introduce a distinctive architectural design that exemplifies excellence and refined quality." The architecture of the development introduces a dynamic, triangular form with the facade being clad in glass, with brass coloured metallic screens. Nathan Iyer the Director of IYER Urban Design said, "Our goal was to introduce international, cutting-edge architecture with a touch of African flare." Iyer added that The Saxony Sandton is a strikingly tall building and to create interest as you move your way up the structure, they have included facilities such as a wellness centre, smart office spaces and a high-rise bar with a whiskey and cigar lounge. The Saxony Sandton has two-, three- and four-bedroom apartments and penthouses with a staring price of R3,2 million. Accoridng to Naidoo, luxury knows no bounds at The Saxony Sandton with the apartments having imported Italian Berloni kitchens, bedroom cupboards and vanities. Advanced smart home technology and superior security features have been incorporated throughout the development too. The Saxony Sandton also offers residents facilities like state-of-the-art smart open-plan office spaces and boardrooms and an urban rooftop bar as well as a cigar and whiskey lounge among other things. Potential buyers also have the opportunity to have unique digital experience, with The Saxony Sandton sales gallery located at the Nelson Mandela Square. The sales gallery has virtual reality experiences offreing and a chance for individuals to engage with the specially designed interactive module. The gallery is fitted out as a replica of an apartment in the development and it showcases the actual floor, wall and ceiling treatments as well as the kitchens and vanities This allows buyers a touch, feel and see experience of the product they could purchase. According to Naidoo, with the development being such a unique offering it was the obvious choice to launch The Saxony Sandton online to allow interested buyers a chance to purchase a unit from anywhere in the world on a dedicated online platform. Construction on the development starts in April 2019 and is expected to end 25 months thereafter. Follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE