The Collins dictionary defines the term drag race as “a race between vehicles to test their acceleration from a complete stop, especially between specially-designed cars on a short, straight course”. This definition will no doubt conjure up a favourite film scene for many, as drag races are depicted as a dramatic climax in several classic movies released during the last couple of decades. For others, “drag race” is synonymous with the American reality TV show, Rupaul’s Drag Race, which has been renewed for an 11th season and celebrates drag queens of any sexual orientation or gender identity in all their fabulousness. Director of MCQP Ian McMahon said: “I’m pretty sure everyone will agree that this year’s theme offers the most diverse opportunity for all MCQP enthusiasts to create teams of any outfits or costumes that can range from the most extreme masculine - racing car teams - to the absolutely fabulous strutting their stuff in high heels, the most outrageously sexy dresses, while wearing the most OTT wigs, eyelashes and heavy makeup - and everything in between. Expect to see muscle cars, touring bikes and lots of on-the-track grease and muscle. “There will most certainly not be a limitation on just how creative those attending can be, as it without a doubt embraces the diversity of our South African societies and above all else, recognises each individual’s uniqueness and authenticity - something that is close to our heart as the organisers of the event.” “We have created team ticket packages that help team spirit and offer big discounts to promote putting teams together. Will you be “Sexy Sennas”, “Manly Mansells” or “Louder Laudas?” Project Manager of MCQP Candice Heyns said: “Flying over Cape Town, one almost expects a wink from what looks like an ‘eye in the sky’, perfectly adorned with what looks like heavy eyeliner. Every dance floor will be indoors to help with Cape Town’s notorious wind in December.” So which way will MCQP swing this year - more to the masculinity of the theme, or the feminine side? Heyns said: “Don’t limit us either in our creativity. As usual, we have some very clever tricks up our sleeve with MCQP Presents: Drag Race, so just like everyone else, we don’t want to reveal too much prior to the actual event. But one only has to look back at the last 24 years to see that when MCQP presents something, we present it big, original, creative and in a way that takes everyone pleasantly by surprise.” MCQP Presents: Drag Race will start at 7pm on Saturday, December 15. A variety of ticket options is available at www.quicket.co.za. See www.mcqp.co.za or facebook.com/ILikeMCQP and Instagram (MCQP). WEEKEND ARGUS