CAPE TOWN – British American Tobacco has been recognised by the Top Employers Institute as one of the best companies to work for in Africa. The Top Employers Institute conducts independent and internationally verified research into how a company looks after and develops its people. Only organisations that achieve certification in at least four countries within the region earn the special 2019 Top Employers Africa recognition. For the second year in a row, BAT has achieved the African certification having been recognised as a top employer in South Africa, Angola, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Kenya and Nigeria. The South African top employer certification was awarded for the tenth year running. Candice Watson, Head of Human Resources at British American Tobacco Southern Africa said that the company employs around 2000 people in South Africa. Watson explains that the key factors when looking for employees are people with energy, empathy and integrity. "BAT employees are the best experts in their respective roles with a keen sense of business with the ability to lead and work with others in the collaborative and respectful way. We are also always interested in people with the potential to grow in our company and become future leaders of our business in SA or elsewhere," said Watson. Certified companies are those that meet the highest standards in employee working conditions, including nurturing and developing talent at all levels of the organisation. “The Top Employer certification is a recognition of our commitment to our people and to providing them with a stimulating environment where they can and do thrive,” said BAT Southern African Area Managing Director Soraya Benchikh. “Our investment in attracting, retaining and developing a rich and diverse team of talented people ensures the sustainability of our business in Southern Africa.  Our skills development and talent management programmes, our collaborative culture and our diversity and our dynamism are all essential elements of BAT’s success and our people’s well-being," said  Benchikh. The Top Employers Institute assessed British American Tobacco Africa’s employee offerings on the following criteria:  "Our focus on personal and career growth is a key aspect of BAT’s competitiveness. This is a company where people can learn and develop and, in many cases go on to have international careers around the world. The environment at BAT is exciting, challenging, dynamic and collegial. Since our people make us who were, there is a strong focus on fostering an environment where they can perform and develop to the fullest extent of their potential," said Watson. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE