INTERNATIONAL – US vote video streaming company Netflix plans to double its investment in France and produce 14 local shows, twice as many as first planned, chief executive Reed Hastings said on Friday. Hastings did not disclose how much Netflix would invest, though it would be “many millions of euros”, he told French radio station BFM Business. Led Zeppelin was ordered by a US appeals court to face a new trial over whether it stole the opening guitar riff for its 1971 anthem Stairway to Heaven from an obscure instrumental written four years earlier. In a 3-0 decision on Friday, the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco threw out a June 2016 verdict in the rock band's favour, citing a series of errors by the trial judge. A new movie featuring drunk, fornicating and child-abusing priests has outraged some conservative politicians in Poland and fuelled debate about the Catholic Church's influence in one of Europe's most devout nations. Kler (Clergy) revolves around the lives of three fictional Catholic priests who swill vodka and mock the church. One of them sexually abuses a blind orphan boy. CBS is facing probes by both New York city and state officials tied to sexual assault and harassment accusations of its ex-chief executive Leslie Moonves, the company revealed in a regulatory filing on Friday evening. The disclosure of the probes comes just hours after the new CBS board of directors met for the first time in New York. Marty Balin, a co-founder of the legendary rock band Jefferson Airplane whose soulful tenor gave the band its distinctive sound, has died at the age of 76, his representative said on Friday. The guitarist and singer, who co-founded the psychedelic group in San Francisco in 1965, died on Thursday and his wife, Susan Joy Balin, was by his side, spokesperson Ryan Romenesko said. The cause of death was not announced. Ted Turner, the billionaire founder of CNN, says he is suffering from a form of dementia that leaves him exhausted and forgetful. Turner, 79, told CBS television in an interview that he had been diagnosed with Lewy body dementia, a progressive brain disorder. – REUTERS