JOHANNESBURG –  Tastic Rice and Rise Against Hunger (RAH) have partnered for World Food day to distribute food and aid the global hunger relief organisation with the aim of ending hunger by 2030. Tastic Rice has committed to providing enough rice to pack meals for a year, equating to more than 5 million meals for the less fortunate in 2019. On World Food Day, Tastic Rice has taken up the challenge to pack their first 10 000 meals in just 60 minutes and these food parcels will be distributed to Early Childhood Development Centres across South Africa. World Food Day commemorates the launch of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The day aims to raise awareness about food scarcity and hunger with events that are held in over 150 countries around the world. As a non-profit organisation, RAH is dedicated to ending world hunger by 2030 in a sustainable manner and in just three years has grown its support from 9 000 beneficiaries to more than 66 000 who receive five nutritional meals per week. “Much of its success is that it provides immediate nutrition to vulnerable children that underpins a flourishing education framework despite poverty,” said Brian Nell, national operations manager, Rise AgainstHunger. In the next 12 months, Tastic Rice will supply enough rice to pack 5 million meals in 2019, towards the goal of ending hunger. “While we have committed to this amount for this year, we will review our position on the anniversary of the launch when we will be able to assess any additions and changes that may be required for the next three to five years,” said Thembi Sehloho, marketing director: Rice and Pasta, Tiger Brands. “This initiative also allows our staff to volunteer during World Hunger Month in a way that adds to the sustainability of the initiative. They are able to get in touch with what it means to make a difference by giving your time to others. Perhaps, most importantly “We are able to partner with RAH to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals by ensuring a solid early childhood development (ECD) foundation and creating SMME opportunities for créche owners," Sehloho. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE