JOHANNESBURG - For the second consecutive year, Egypt is bringing together youth of all nations at the 2nd Annual World Youth Forum (WYF). This year the Forum will be held from 3 t0 6 November, in the city of Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, under the auspices of President Abdel-Fatah El-Sisi. The WYF is a platform by youth for youth to discuss different topics that occupy the world today and will shape the future. It aims to send a message of peace, prosperity, harmony, and progress to the entire world. WYF engages youth from around the globe in an enriching set-up, allowing them to exchange views and recommend initiatives to decision-makers and influential figures. The forum is a chance for youth to engage with top policymakers, network with promising youth from the region and the world that are determined to make the world a better place for everyone. Last year the conference was attended by more than 3,000 participants from all over the world, as well as being followed by 92 million people online. This year, the WYF will concentrate on three main themes; Peace, Development and Creativity. The theme of peace will discuss sub-topics such as the Role of World Leaders in Building and Sustaining Peace and Water Security in the Wake of Climate Change (Day Zero). The African Agenda 2063, "the Africa we want", will be discussed under the theme of development. Employment opportunities in the artificial intelligence era, as well as entrepreneurs and innovative startup roles in economic growth will also be discussed under the theme of creativity. Youth from around the world between the ages of 18 - 40 years old can apply as attendees or speakers through the linkhttps://register.wyfegypt.com/register. The WYF will guarantee; free accommodation and flight tickets, to all participants after the final result of the random selection is announced. The Embassy of the Arab Republic of Egypt in South Africa encourages all South African Youth to register and participate in the 2nd annual WYF. - African News Agency (ANA)