Cape Town - The SA Council for Educators (Sace) has warned about the high number of teachers involved in the rape of, and sexual relations with, pupils. In a report, tabled in Parliament, Sace said there were 78 cases of rape and sexual relations involving teachers with pupils in the 2017/18 financial year. The report comes as more cases of rape and sexual abuse against pupils are reported in parts of the country. Sace said most incidents happened in KwaZulu-Natal where 19 rape cases were reported against teachers. This was followed by the Western Cape with 14 cases of rape and sexual relations with pupils recorded by the council. In Gauteng, Sace investigated 13 cases of rape and sexual relations with pupils against teachers. Gauteng was followed by Mpumalanga with eight such cases reported. The Free State and Eastern Cape both reported seven cases of rape and other sexual misconduct offences probed by the council. While Sace investigated four cases in Limpopo there were two rape and sexual relations cases probed in the North West. The Northern Cape was the only province with only one such case reported. Sace said it was dealing with the problem of unprofessional conduct by teachers. It said it was dealing with a number of stakeholders to ensure they clamp down on teachers involved in sexual misconduct in schools. “It gives us great pleasure again to report that many parents, learners and other stakeholders including Social Development and the SAPS have already been spoken to by Sace. “They are receptive to the message and are giving their support to the programme. “They gave their commitment to support the Sace and the system to eradicate abuse of learners and to support educators and the profession.” Sace said pupils and parents had a huge role to play in clamping down on these offences against pupils by teachers. It was important that they co-operated with the work they did to rap teachers over the knuckles who step out of line and abuse pupils. In the report released by police on crime statistics recently, it was said sexual offences and rape of women and children have increased in the country. Police Minister Bheki Cele had warned that this was unacceptable and family and sexual violence units would be re-introduced to clamp down on these abuses. * Receive IOL's top stories via WhatsApp by sending your name to 0745573535. Political Bureau