Johannesburg - As South Africa mourns the death of Jabulani Tsambo, aka HHP, celebrities and political parties paid tribute to the celebrated Motswako artist. HHP's death was confirmed by his wife, famed publicist Lerato Sengadi on Wednesday to TsishaLIVE. "Yes, yes it's true. I am with the family at the moment," said Sengadi. He was 38. At this time the details around his death are still unclear. Friends, celebrities and political parties have all since paid tribute to the hip hop star following news of his death. The DA in a statement hailed HHP, or Jabba as he was affectionately known, as "one of the fiercest pioneers of Mzansi hip hop and rapping in vernacular". "From hits such as Harambe to Bosso Ke Mang he was an artist who used his voice to fight injustice, celebrate our diversity as a nation and provided the soundtrack of hope to millions of young people in our country. "His passing will leave an irreparable vacuum but his music will live on. Rest in peace." The ANC meanwhile remembered HHP as "one of the artists who popularised hip-hop genre as he never feared to perform with township lingo and used several languages IsiZulu, Sesotho including his mother tongue Setswana".   "HHP is one of the rappers who gave life in the hip-hop genre as it started to dominate the airwaves to compete with other music including Kwaito.  His passing has robbed us of a contribution he would have continued to make in the development of music industry." "He reshaped the music industry to produce many entrepreneurs. He used his talent to inspire social, economic, cultural and political change in the country. He was a brilliant singer, dancer and composer whose music defies classification. His infectious music has a universal appeal and so does HHP’s singing style and stage presence. We were indeed privileged to have known and lived in his lifetime."   The party added that HHP left an indelible mark in the country and that his music would continue reverberating in listeners' ears for many years to come.   The party sent its heartfelt condolences to his family, fans, friend and colleagues. See more reactions to HHP's death:      Had I known that we were chatting for the last time I would have stayed on the line for long. But we were setting up a meeting for Tomm (THURS) for a further brotherly session 😭😭😭 #RipJabba #RipHHP #RIPjabulani pic.twitter.com/QHifHkbWIi  — www.djcleo.co.za (@djcleo1) 
 October 24, 2018       RIP King #RIPJABBA Wow 😔 pic.twitter.com/uRv9WIE7tF  — Black Coffee (@RealBlackCoffee) 
 October 24, 2018       My heart is broken. #RIPJABBA 💔 pic.twitter.com/oqFx6HWVga  — Terry Pheto (@TerryPheto) 
 October 24, 2018      This can’t be true. No ways 💔 — R.M Phoolo (@CassperNyovest) 
 October 24, 2018  IOL