CAPE TOWN – Research firm Gartner has released its worldwide PC shipment estimates for Q3 2018. Gartner's research focuses on Windows-based tablets as PCs and excludes Chromebooks or any non-Windows-based tablets. “The PC market continued to be driven by steady corporate PC demand, which was driven by Windows 10 PC hardware upgrades. We expect the Windows 10 upgrade cycle to continue through 2020 at which point the upgrade demand will diminish,” said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner. The report shows that Lenovo is at the top, with 15.8 million units shipped and 23.6 percent market share. According to Gartner's research, Europe, The Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Asia/Pacific and Japan experienced growth in the third quarter of 2018, while the US and Latin America declined. Latin America showed the steepest decline of 8.5 percent after showing some stabilization earlier in 2018. “Despite the third quarter typically showing strong consumer PC sales due to the back-to-school season, weakness in consumer PC demand continued, offsetting the strong sales in the business market.” The report also showed that HP dropped to the second position, but recorded its fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year shipment growth. HP showed strong desktop shipment growth, which indicated strong demand among corporate buyers. Here is a list of the Worldwide PC shipments Q3 2018: .tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg .tg-om3m{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;text-align:center;vertical-align:top} .tg .tg-nuwg{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;text-align:left;vertical-align:top} .tg .tg-0lax{text-align:left;vertical-align:top}