CAPE TOWN – Aerobotics, a Cape Town-based artificial intelligence company wants to make farming easier with its technology in South Africa. By using aerial imagery from drones and satellites and machine learning algorithms the company found a way to spot early pest and disease detection on tree farms and to optimise crop performance for farmers around the world. "We are lucky enough to have access to some of the best, tech-savvy farmers globally, who have been sharing knowledge with us from day 1 to help build solutions aimed at helping with key problems faced on the farm", the company told Business Report. The company's cloud-based web application, Aeroview, provides farmers with insights, scout mapping and other tools to mitigate damage to tree and vine crops from pest and disease. The company was founded by James Paterson Aerobotics Co-Founder and Chief Executive and Benji Meltzer Aerobotics Co-Founder and chief technology officer. James Paterson grew up in a farming family in the Western Cape, South Africa. He holds a BSc in Mechatronics Engineering from UCT, where he won awards for building aerial and ground robots. Benji Meltzer has taken a keen interest in data science and analytics, looking to use cutting edge technology to solve real-world problems. He has relevant experience through studying a MSc in Neurotechnology at Imperial College London and working as an Analytics Manager at Uber Aerobotics was self-funded for the first 2 years of operation through proceeds made from building and selling hardware (drones). "We then raised our seed round in funding in 2017 from 4Di and the Savannah Fund. Recently we were recently lucky enough to have raised $2 million in our Series A funding, led by Nedbank", said the company in an email response to questions. Here is how their farming app works:   When asked why the company chose to focus on farming, they just saw an opportunity in the sector. "We saw a huge opportunity in agriculture, where farmers suffer huge losses during production largely due to pest and disease. We wanted to help farmers leverage data to derive decisions that they could actively make to better manage their risk and crop," said the company. Aerobotics has clients in 11 countries, including the USA, Spain, Australia and the UK. In Africa, Aerobotics has clients in South Africa, Kenya and Mozambique. WATCH:   BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE  