The Huawei Mate 20 Pro is a breath of fresh air in a smartphone market populated by homogenised devices. It offers users a compelling combination of powerful artificial intelligence (AI), flagship performance, longer battery life, advanced security, a greater videography experience, and more - all wrapped in a sophisticated design. The Huawei Mate 20 Pro is the ultimate device made for those who will not settle for anything less than perfection. A higher intelligence Huawei's new Kirin 980, the tiny yet powerful on-device chipset for the Huawei Mate 20 Pro, strikes a perfect balance between high performance and state-of-the-art power efficiency, delivering 75% improved performance and 58% improved power efficiency. The Kirin 980 also enables quicker launch times for apps, ensuring better multi-tasking and an overall smoother user experience. Superior video, intuitive photography Only experienced hands can get the most out of the best equipment - or so they say. This is a misconception Huawei is keen to dispel with the Huawei Mate 20 Pro’s Leica Triple Camera, which comprises a 40MP RGB camera, a 20MP camera with a 16mm Leica Ultra Wide Angle Lens and an 8MP telephoto camera. The broader perspective of the ultra-wide angle lens creates a sense of spaciousness and adds a three dimensional effect to images. The Huawei Mate 20 Pro's camera system also allows for macro photography, which produces crisp images of objects that are placed as close as 2.5cm from the lens. These are just two of the features that elevate the device's camera to a truly all-round camera that is ready to capture any and all action. The Huawei Mate 20 Pro also adds a whole new dimension to videos. Huawei's AI Cinema Mode professional filmmaking skills makes it possible for even novice filmmakers to create blockbusters. For example, you can adjust hue, saturation and brightness by using preset modes, which include Vintage, Fresh, Suspense and Background Blur. Small package, big power The Huawei Mate 20 Pro sports a 4200mAh high-density yet very slim battery. Combining a large battery with highly efficient hardware and software, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro can sustain two days worth of work or play without needing to be recharged. When the Huawei Mate 20 Pro does need more power, Huawei's all-new SuperCharge 2.0 fast-charging technology can give the phone 70 percent battery in 30 minutes. The Huawei Mate 20 Pro also boasts Huawei's Wireless Quick Charge. A 10-minute wireless charging session tops up the battery by 12 percent. Another impressive world-first for this new Huawei flagship is its wireless reverse charging, which enables it to double as a power bank for selected electronic devices. Highly sophisticated, yet user friendly security The Huawei Mate 20 Pro's 3D Face Unlock solution recognises a user within 500 metres, with an error rate below one in a million. In addition, the smartphone’s in-screen fingerprint sensor has been integrated more seamlessly and can pinpoint the location of a user's finger on the screen.