CAPE TOWN – At its annual hardware event in October, Google has introduced a new Home Hub device which is an assistant device that now features a voice-activated touchscreen.       According to Google, the goal with the Home Hub is to create “a more helpful, thoughtful home." Google has updated services such as Search, YouTube, Maps, Calendar, and Photos for Home Hub, to enable both voice controls and receive improved visual information. Hub also has a new feature called Home View, a one-stop dashboard for controlling and managing all the smart home devices in your home. Google also added a new feature called Live Albums, where you’ll be able to select specific people, and have Google automatically create albums with every photo of those people, using machine learning to filter out bad shots or blurry photos. The company also made a point of showcasing YouTube support, which integrates with Assistant’s voice control The Home Hub is also set to support Google’s Voice Match feature, meaning it’ll be able to recognise different users’ voices and set-up up calendars, commute times, reminders, and more right on the home screen for each person in the home. Hub can also adjust to the lighting in the room, using a dedicated sensor to adjust the display for the lighting in real time. Users will also be able to use the Home Hub as a speaker, with support for YouTube Music, Spotify, Pandora, iHeartRadio and more. It can also be turned into a multi-room speaker with other Google Home or Chromecast Audio devices. Google Home Hub is compatible with more than 5,000 smart devices from over 400 brands. Specifications The Home Hub features a 7-inch LCD touchscreen display, a “full-range” speaker, and a two-microphone far-field mic array, as well as support for Bluetooth 5.0. The Home Hub comes in four colours: green (Aqua), pink (Sand), dark grey (Charcoal), and white (Chalk) and includes six months of free YouTube Premium service. .tg {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;} .tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:black;} .tg .tg-0ys7{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;text-align:left} .tg .tg-nuwg{background-color:#3531ff;color:#ffffff;text-align:left;vertical-align:top} .tg .tg-s268{text-align:left} .tg .tg-0lax{text-align:left;vertical-align:top}  