Cape Town - The driver, who allegedly killed a child and her nanny while they stood on a pavement and then fled the scene in his car, has been released on R5000 bail.Moegamat Rafiek Hayners, 24, made his first appearance at the Wynberg Magistrates’ Court on Tuesday where he faced two charges of culpable homicide for the deaths of Shaylynn Arendse, six, of Strandfontein and Maureen Abrahams, 67, of Lotus River. Today would have been little Shaylynn’s seventh birthday. Inside a packed courtroom, a smiling Hayners warmly greeted relatives and friends. He was represented by his attorney, Adrian Samuels.  The court heard Hayners had a fixed address and he had no previous convictions or warrants. According to the State, Hayners had jumped a red robot and struck the child and the woman, leaving behind his number plate.  Hayners handed himself over to police on Monday with his lawyer in tow, after being on the run since Thursday, 27 September. Shaylynn, who was in Grade 1 at Strandfontein Primary School, had been standing on the pavement with Maureen at the intersection of 5th Avenue and Strandfontein Road, in Lotus River, at about 2pm and were on their way to the nearby Pick 'n Pay store when tragedy struck.  The driver of a white VW Golf 3 jumped a red robot and lost control of the vehicle, ploughing into the child and her minder. Shaylynn was flung into the air and died instantly of injuries to her head. Maureen sustained multiple injuries and was rushed to the hospital, where she died a few hours later. The vehicle was later found abandoned at a house in Hanover Park. It is alleged the residents are relatives of Hayners’. Hayners was granted R5000 bail with no conditions and the matter was postponed to 12 December for the police to complete the investigation. Outside court, Hayners’ uncle told Shaylynn’s parents, Sharnell Arendse and Jason Hendricks, that they would bring him to their home to apologise. He said Hayners was treated for trauma. “He is sorry, he is also suffering and he was in hospital,” the uncle said. But Sharnell, overcome with emotion, said: “How can he be traumatised? He isn’t suffering, I lost my daughter!” She collapsed in tears and Jason carried her off. “We have no answers, we are devastated,” the heartbroken father said. Shaylynn’s grandmother, Brenda Tommy, said they wanted Hayners to remain behind bars. “We are not happy with the bail because lives were lost. Justice must be served, he must sit for this,” she says. Daily Voice