Charlene’s story is at once the unique life history of an inspirational human being and a tale with many aspects common to other people living on the street. Throughout the course of her life, she has been in and out of shelters as she has moved from jobs to unemployment, having to return to the streets once a contract ended. This is what I have come to realise as the cycle of homelessness - evidence that the current social system is failing society’s most vulnerable. While learning skills at The Carpenter’s Shop - carpentry, glass making and pottery - she lived on the streets with no way to support herself until a Good Samaritan paid for her studies at Cape Tech, and residence. And then, armed with her certificate but no job, it was back to the streets for Charlene. A stint as a skills trainer at the Saartjie Baartman Centre introduced Charlene to her late husband, Kenneth, also a skills trainer. “We got married at St Mary’s Church in Cape Town in Roeland Street,” Charlene remembers. “We moved to Bo-Kaap and lived in the Kraal. We were married for 15 years and then he had a heart attack at 39 when my only child was just starting high school.” Throughout the marriage, Charlene was on contract work - she was never made permanent, working mostly with homeless people for organisations that never had proper funding to employ her. Kenny had a full-time job and so he supported the family. He had trained to become a librarian and worked on the mobile library bus. “He always said he didn’t want to go away any more, but he couldn’t sit still, always wanting to work, doing extra work on Saturdays because he wanted us to have a house,” recalls Charlene. “After he died, things fell apart. I lost the place I was staying in; my son was staying with someone else to go to school.” Charlene faced a very difficult decision when she met a British woman who saw something in her son, Randy, and offered to take him back to the UK and put him through school. “I refused,” said Charlene. “But when he went to Standard seven (Grade 9), I couldn’t handle things anymore. I was living on the streets and not working, so I phoned her. Randy was willing to go, and so she arranged all the papers. He completed his schooling, and then she put him through college. She brought him back regularly to see me.” Charlene was too independent to accept help for herself - “I refused to go with and be a burden” - but as a mother, she put her child first and ensured a better life for Randy, who now lives overseas and works on the Mercy Ship. Charlene was able to break the cycle of homelessness, thanks to the help of Souper Troupers. I end this column with a letter from Charlene: “My journey with Souper Troupers. I would like to say a big thank you to Souper Troupers for opening up your hearts for me. I remember the first day I met you at the Company’s Garden. I felt lost and hurt. I had no vision, purpose or will to live. Having this great opportunity to meet you all at Souper Troupers has changed my life completely. The love, concern, compassion, time and energy you invested in my life is greatly appreciated. “There are not enough words to express how meaningful this journey has been. Souper Troupers not only taught me how to love myself, but also helped me to renew and restore my life. Souper Troupers gave me the right tools to help me turn my life around. There is a list of a million things I am grateful for. If I put it down on paper, I would need an A4 book and a long time to complete it. “I would like to say a big thank you to the entire staff, especially to the founder, Kerry Dale Hoffman, Charlene Shapiro and Caryn Gootkin. They made it possible for me to get back on to my feet - mentally, physically and emotionally. I am ready to step back into society with a vision, a dream, a goal and a new mindset, knowing that I am destined for greatness. “I count each and every blessing I have received this far in my life. I am excited to start my new journey equipped and empowered through Souper Troupers and by the Grace of God. Fondest Regards, Charlene Matafin. * Armed with degrees from UCT, Unisa and Cambridge University, Caryn Gootkin began practising law but soon realised the cut-throat corporate world was not for her. She began retraining and working as a writer, sub-editor and proofreader, and discovered her voice and a passion for speaking up for the voiceless. In early 2017 she joined Kerry Hoffman and together they run Souper Troopers, an NPO working to eradicate homelessness. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus