CAPE TOWN - President Cyril Ramaphosa will today address the Jobs Summit as announced in his 2018 State of the Nation Address. The Summit hopes to bring together government, business, labour, and community organisations to advance job creation. The Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs department said that the Jobs Summit will discuss a common approach and work on improving coordination among stakeholders. South Africa aims to raise employment by 11 million to 24 million by 2030 in line with the National Development Plan. The unemployment rate in SA increased to 27.2 percent in the second quarter of 2018 from 26.7 percent in the previous period. The number of unemployed rose by 103 thousand to 6.08 million while the number of employed fell by 90 thousand to 16.29 million. The Unemployment Rate in South Africa averaged 25.57 percent from 2000 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 31.20 percent in the first quarter of 2003 and a record low of 21.50 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008. The rising unemployment situation in South Africa is clearly a major issue for the government and today's Jobs Summitt hopes to at the very least show that government is taking steps to address the issue. Whether South Africans have the same sentiment is another story. On Twitter, a number of South Africans voiced their opinions and quite frankly their dissatisfaction at government. Gareth David said: See #JobsSummit is trending, guess this will be another attempt at wasting taxpayer money.      Nkululeko Somacala-Manciya said: All I want to know is that how is this summit going to benefit a young black person in (a) rural village in Flagstaff, (an) informal settlement in Phumasilwe and Township in Tembisa?      Violet Mdluli said: I hope at Jobs Summit they discuss & scrap away the barriers that prevent the qualified youth from being employed.    Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant seemed to be upbeat about the Jobs Summitt and told SABC News today that "everybody needs to come together and commit to this process." But this did not seem to quell the vitriol and anger some Twitter users had for the summit. Thabiso Taba said: We are a joke as South Africans. I mean how can we rely on a government of pensioners to create jobs for the 50% of young ppl.      Business Report is calling on our readers to voice their opinion.     To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 